1. Typical juvenile myoclonic epilepsy (JME) patient on topiramate is well controlled; he wants to stop the medication. What is the recommendation?

2. What is the 2-year recurrence rate of seizures after the first seizure attack?

3. Q63. A patient with mesial temporal sclerosis–related seizures is receiving topiramate 200 mg BID and carbamazepine 400 mg BID, but his seizures remain uncontrolled. What will you do?

4. In a case of catamenial seizures, what is the recommended treatment?

5. Q225. An 18-year-old female patient with seizures is found dead in bed after taking only one AED. What is the risk of sudden unexpected death in epilepsy (SUDEP)?

6. Hypsarrhythmia with tuberous sclerosis (TS), what is the treatment?

7. In a scenario of dyscognitive auras (Temporal lobe epilepsy), what imaging is typically used for diagnosis?

8. A medical patient with diabetes mellitus, hypertension, hyperlipidemia, osteoporosis, and on warfarin, what antiepileptic medication should be given?

9. A 28-year-old woman with well-controlled epilepsy on lamotrigine therapy wishes to start combined oral contraceptives (OCB). What should you advise?

10. Q156. Which of the following treatments is commonly used for Landau-Kleffner syndrome?

11. What is the effect of adding a third antiepileptic drug (AED) on seizure control?

12. Patient with MTS seizure; EEG showed left temporal discharges. What symptoms does he have?

13. A patient presents with an aura of fear and seizure localization. Which area of the brain is most likely involved?

14. A 3-year-old boy presented with developmental delay and seizures consisting of tonic seizures, drop attacks, and other types of seizures. What do you expect to find on his EEG (Lennox-Gastaut syndrome)?

15. A 2-year-old child with developmental delay presents with tonic-clonic seizures and frequent “drop” (atonic) spells. What would you expect to find on the EEG?

16. What is the most common cause of sudden unexpected death in epilepsy?

17. A patient has aphasia and multiple seizure types. What is the diagnosis?

18. A 45-year-old female patient diagnosed with epilepsy is currently on Lacosamide 200 mg BID and Levetiracetam 1500 mg BID. She presented to the epilepsy outpatient clinic for evaluation. She reported a history of generalized seizure preceded by feelings of fear and palpitations. While in the clinic, she had a seizure episode that started with chewing spells and right hand automatism followed by bilateral generalized tonic-clonic seizure. She doesn’t recall the event. Which of the following is the next step in management?

19. A patient with a first-time seizure, normal physical examination, and normal EEG, regarding his risk of seizure recurrence?

20. Patient with typical symptoms of Juvenile Myoclonic Epilepsy (JME), what is a characteristic feature?

21. Q252. A patient exhibits seizure semiology characterized by flexion in one limb with extension of the other limb and head turning to the extended limb. Where is the likely localization?

22. In an elderly patient with renal stones, heart failure, atrial fibrillation, and post-stroke seizures, which antiepileptic drug is the best choice?

23. A child has had two seizures, both occurring while he was on a train, each associated with nausea and vomiting. EEG showed posterior (occipital) discharges. What is the diagnosis?

24. In a case scenario of a 30-year-old female patient with bizarre nocturnal movements, what is the likely localization of the seizure focus?

25. What is the least medication to interact with oral contraceptive pills (OCP)?

26. Which EEG finding has the best prognostic value in a 9-year-old boy who has frequent staring spells, especially at school?

27. Q255. A scenario about a child who has an attack of stereotypical hyperkinetic behavior occurring during the night (EEG attached showed frontal epileptiform discharges). What is the diagnosis?

28. Q136. Multiple seizure types refractory to AEDs

29. A child with recurrent staring episodes, myoclonus, and rare generalized tonic-clonic seizures (GTCs) is being treated. Which of the following anti-seizure medications will worsen his seizures?

30. A lady with diabetes mellitus on multiple anti-diabetic medications, hypertension, and osteoporosis has complex partial epilepsy. What medication will you give?

31. In a scenario of uncontrolled epilepsy on 2 AEDs, what is the next step?

32. A pregnant lady post tumor resection on oral contraceptive pills (OCP) and known to have seizures. Which of the following antiepileptic drugs (AED) would be least likely to interact with her oral contraceptive pills?

33. An elderly woman with diabetes mellitus, hypertension, and atrial fibrillation had an episode of syncope followed by convulsions. The episode was witnessed by her family, who reported that she was confused for a short period afterward. Upon presentation to the emergency department, her blood pressure was 90/70, and she was fatigued but conscious and oriented. Which of the following will help you with the diagnosis?

34. In a patient with seizures that include myoclonic jerks, which medication is appropriate to prescribe?

35. Q27. A young female epileptic patient on Topamax has decreased concentration. What should she be switched to?

36. Q289. What factors favor seizures over syncope?

37. A young female with epilepsy on Topamax has worsened difficulty concentrating. Which choice is the best for her?

38. A pregnant lady with epilepsy on valproic acid wants to change her medication. Which of the following is a suitable alternative?

39. Characteristic of temporal lobe epilepsy:

40. What is the most common type of aura in mesial temporal lobe (MTL) seizures?

41. Q137. What’s the EEG finding of Juvenile Myoclonic Epilepsy (JME)?

42. In a case of catamenial seizures, which statement is true?

43. In a pregnant patient with seizures, which statement is true?

44. In a case of laryngeal spasm, what is the localization of the seizure?

45. A young lady diagnosed with mesial temporal lobe epilepsy (MTLE) is on lamotrigine and carbamazepine. Her last generalized tonic-clonic seizure was a couple of months ago, but she presents to the clinic with episodes of partial unaware seizures occurring four times a month. What is the best next step?

46. A patient with drug-resistant seizures has an EEG showing multifocal epileptic spikes. Which surgical intervention is most appropriate?

47. The patient, an alcoholic with a known case of epilepsy on antiepileptic medication (ASM), came with an active seizure. After being loaded with IV VPA, he was agitated and then had a decreased level of consciousness. What should be done next?

48. A 53-year-old male who presented with a first-time generalized tonic-clonic seizure, normal physical examination, and normal EEG, with no family history of epilepsy, what is his risk of seizure recurrence?

49. In a case of Mesial Temporal Lobe Epilepsy (MTLE), a patient is on the maximum dose of Keppra. What is the next recommended medication?

50. A child with continuous jerky movement of the right arm for a prolonged time developed mild weakness of the right arm. Brain MRI reported left perisylvian atrophy. What is expected to be found?

51. A 22-year-old woman with a history of epilepsy on topiramate is now complaining of difficulty in concentration and cognitive functions. What is the best option for her management?

52. A patient has a history of new-onset generalized tonic-clonic seizures (GTCs) and an EEG picture. What medication will you start?

53. What is the effect of hyperventilation on EEG?

54. A video of a patient with bizarre movements during sleep is presented. What classification does this fall under according to the definition of epilepsy?

55. A 23-year-old female is brought to the clinic by her husband, who states she has hyperactive jerky movements, especially during sleep. EEG shows frontal lobe epileptic spikes in waves. What is the best medication for her?

56. In a focal aware seizure, which antiepileptic medication (ASM) is commonly used?

57. Q284. Patient with MTS seizure; EEG showed left temporal discharges; what symptoms does he have?

58. A child is brought with a progressive difficulty in understanding language and partial aphasia. He has recurrent nocturnal seizures. An EEG obtained during sleep demonstrates continuous spike-and-wave discharges occupying >85% of non–rapid eye movement sleep. What is the most likely diagnosis?

59. In a patient with a history of moderate head trauma from a motor vehicle accident, for how long does the risk of seizure persist?

60. Q266. A young lady who underwent tumor resection presented with a staring spell and loss of awareness. What is the seizure classification?

61. Regarding mesial temporal sclerosis, which statement is true?

62. A patient came to the emergency room with multiple episodes of decreased level of consciousness. What is the most important indicator that you need to start antiepileptic drugs (AED)?

63. What is the percentage of juvenile myoclonic epilepsy (JME) patients that will be seizure-free without treatment?

64. A patient with mesial temporal lobe (MTL) epilepsy on two AEDs came to the clinic. What is the reason for her breakthrough seizure?

65. Q153. What is the mean age of onset for Landau-Kleffner syndrome?

66. Q26. A patient with a seizure scenario is asked about the best EEG predictor for good prognosis. Which of the following is the best predictor?

67. A young female epileptic patient on Topamax has decreased concentration. What should be switched to?

68. Q294. In early myoclonic encephalopathy with migrating myoclonus that then became more generalized, what is the EEG finding?

69. In a case involving MRI findings consistent with Mesial Temporal Lobe Epilepsy (MTLE), what type of aura might the patient experience?

70. A 30-year-old patient with seizures controlled on antiepileptic drugs (AED) developed facial redness and fatigue. What is the likely AED?

71. A female patient known to have complex partial seizures with generalized tonic-clonic (GTC) seizures occurring twice per week. EEG shows temporal spikes and MRI reveals mesial temporal sclerosis. After trying Dilantin (phenytoin) without improvement, she started on carbamazepine and Keppra. After one year of follow-up, she reports improvement in complex partial seizures and no GTC seizures, with attacks occurring once per month. What is the next appropriate management?

72. An 18-year-old girl with mesial temporal lobe epilepsy (MTLE) is on lacosamide 200 mg twice daily, but her seizures remain uncontrolled. What is the best course of action?

73. Q202. A seizure described as early non-focal right head turning with right hand automatism. What is the localization?

74. A young lady with epilepsy on lamotrigine wants to start oral contraceptive pills (OCP). What should you recommend for her?

75. Q278. Which factors favor seizures over syncope?

76. Q271. Male patient has migraine and seizure; what medications will you give?

77. A slow EEG is most commonly associated with which condition?

78. Patient with absence seizure; what is the medication that worsens the seizure?

79. In a case of status epilepticus, when will the compensatory mechanisms fail?

80. A patient with Juvenile Myoclonic Epilepsy (JME) on a single AED has been seizure-free for the last 2 years. They come to the clinic and ask about the possibility of stopping the medication. What would you do?

81. What is the effect of phenytoin when taken with valproic acid?

82. A patient on three antiepileptic medications is not improving. What is the recommended next step?

83. A patient who has mesial temporal lobe epilepsy (MTLE) and is on 2 antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) presents to the clinic for follow-up. He has around 1–2 attacks every few months. What would you do next?

84. Which antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) exacerbate myoclonus?

85. A young male with nocturnal hyperkinetic movements at night, facial clonic spells, and profuse salivation sometimes evolves to generalized tonic-clonic seizures. A diagnosis of epilepsy was established. Where is the site of seizure focus?

86. What is the risk of recurrence for febrile seizures in the future?

87. A patient presents with epileptic spasms and EEG showing hypsarrhythmia. What is the diagnosis?

88. Which area, if removed by surgery, will result in seizure freedom?

89. A known case of epilepsy in a female patient on lamotrigine wants to start on oral contraceptive pills (OCP); what will you tell her?

90. Landau-Kleffner syndrome (LKS) is also known as:

91. Which of the following antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) is known to worsen myoclonic seizures?

92. A patient experiences an episode of upraising gastric sensation followed by laryngeal constriction. What is the localization?

93. What is the next step in the management of a patient with refractory epilepsy?

94. In a case scenario of juvenile myoclonic epilepsy (JME), what is a characteristic feature?

95. Patient has focal seizure on treatment and he is well controlled. What is the favorable outcome in this patient?

96. What is the AED that has the highest concentration in breast milk?

97. Which cranial nerve is primarily responsible for the sense of smell?

98. Which cranial nerve is primarily responsible for the sense of smell?

99. In the scenario of an elderly patient with comorbidities and polypharmacy who has had frequent seizures in the last 2 years, which drug is the best option considering drug interactions?

100. Which of the following is the most common cause of ischemic stroke?

101. A patient presents with brief, abrupt-onset nocturnal seizures lasting less than one minute, characterized by hyperkinetic, asymmetrical extension of the limbs. He also reports morning episodes preceded by a rising epigastric sensation. What is the most likely localization of his seizure focus?

102. A female patient with epilepsy is on two antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) but is still not controlled. She wants to try a newly released AED. What considerations should be taken into account?

103. Which of these is a characteristic of Lennox-Gastaut syndrome (LGS)?

104. A patient experiences seizures characterized predominantly by a sensation of choking or laryngeal constriction without prominent motor phenomena or epigastric aura. Where is the likely localization of the seizure focus?

105. In the same scenario, what should be done next based on the EEG findings indicating nonconvulsive status epilepticus (NCSE)?

106. A three-month-old baby with early myoclonic encephalopathy had migrating myoclonic seizures that then became more generalized. EEG was done; what is expected to be seen?

107. Which cranial nerve is primarily responsible for the sense of smell?

108. A pregnant lady on a low dose of levetiracetam is sleeping well and has good compliance, but is still having seizures. What do you want to add?

109. A patient in the clinic has continuous facial jerks and hand jerks (partial continua). How should you treat this condition?

110. A young man with a known case of epilepsy describes his seizure as starting with laryngeal constriction, followed by other symptoms until a generalized tonic-clonic seizure occurs. Where is the likely localization of the seizure focus?

111. In a similar scenario, the patient experiences loss of awareness and sometimes tonic-clonic seizures (TCS) with a normal interictal EEG and normal MRI. What is the next step?

112. A child is experiencing repeated staring episodes (absence seizures) at home and school. What is the first-line treatment?

113. A young patient with a 10-year history of focal seizures on treatment has been seizure-free for 2 years. What is the best predictor of seizure remission?

114. In a case scenario typical of childhood absence epilepsy, which antiepileptic medication will worsen his seizures?

115. Q49. Patient came with absence seizure with rare GTC; EEG showed 3Hz. What are the other associated symptoms this patient can have?

116. A patient with a new onset seizure and a normal neurological examination presents. What will carry the highest risk of recurrence?

117. What is the most significant predictor of seizure recurrence in a patient known to have epilepsy who has stopped his medications?

118. A patient had recurrent nocturnal seizures with hypermotor features, a history of asymmetric posturing, strange feelings, and brief loss of awareness. Where is the likely seizure focus?

119. Q219. A 20-year-old male with generalized tonic-clonic seizures on lamotrigine 200 mg bid has had a breakthrough seizure. What is the next appropriate medication?

120. Which of the following neurodegenerative disorders is characterized by progressive combined upper and lower motor neuron degeneration with preserved sensory function?

121. A 26-year-old female, who is known to have epilepsy, has increased seizure frequency and is pregnant. She was on Keppra 500 mg BID. What medication should be added?

122. Which of the following is the most common cause of ischemic stroke?

123. Which of the following is the most common cause of subarachnoid hemorrhage?

124. A young lady who underwent tumor resection presented with a staring spell and loss of awareness. What is your treatment?

125. Which of the following is the most common cause of acute ischemic stroke?

126. A patient with mesial temporal lobe epilepsy (MTLE) is on two anti-seizure medications but still experiences monthly seizures. What is the next step?

127. After moderate traumatic brain injury and an episode of transient global amnesia, for how long does the risk of seizure persist?

128. What is the most common cause of sudden unexpected death in epilepsy (SUDEP)?

129. Patient came with absence seizure with rare GTC; EEG showed 3Hz; what are the other associated symptoms this patient can have?

130. Which of the following cranial nerves is primarily responsible for controlling the muscles of facial expression?

131. In a case of palpitation and sweating, what is the localization of the seizure?

132. In a case of generalized tonic-clonic (GTC) seizures, what is the percentage of recurrence within 2 years?

133. Q178. A patient diagnosed with epilepsy started on antiepileptic medication and was later found to have aplastic anemia. What is the likely cause of the aplastic anemia?

134. A 25-year-old pregnant lady with epilepsy is currently on Valproic acid 500 mg daily. She has had no seizures in the last 3 years, and her last EEG and brain MRI were normal. Which of the following is the appropriate management?

135. Q290. A patient known to have epilepsy for more than 10 years, who reports no aura, arrives at the emergency department unwitnessed with tonic-clonic seizures. What is the classification of his seizures?

136. A child with developmental delay has an EEG that shows hypsarrhythmia. What is the diagnosis?

137. A 61-year-old male with diabetes, hypertension, dyslipidemia, osteoporosis, and epilepsy is being evaluated. Which medication is suitable for him?

138. A 45-year-old female patient diagnosed with epilepsy is currently on Lacosamide 200 mg BID and Levetiracetam 1500 mg BID. She presented to the epilepsy outpatient clinic for evaluation. She reported a history of generalized seizure preceded by feelings of fear and palpitation. While in the clinic, she had a seizure episode that started with chewing spells and right hand automatism followed by bilateral generalized tonic-clonic seizure. She doesn’t recall the event. What is the pathophysiology responsible for this case?

139. A 58-year-old man presents with an 18-month history of progressive limb weakness. Examination shows muscle atrophy with fasciculations in the upper limbs, brisk reflexes and a positive Babinski sign. There are no sensory disturbances. Electromyography reveals widespread denervation potentials. Which neurodegenerative disorder is characterized by combined upper and lower motor neuron degeneration leading to progressive muscle weakness and atrophy?

140. A young patient with developmental delay and multiple seizure types is on Clobazam 10 mg BID, Levetiracetam 1500 mg BID, and Valproic acid. The EEG report shows slow spikes and waves at 1–1.5 Hz. Which of the following is the best management for this patient?

141. A young patient presented to the neurology outpatient clinic for epilepsy evaluation. He has seizure semiology in the form of right upper limb tonic posturing followed by limb jerking with lack of awareness, then bilateral tonic-clonic seizure. He doesn’t recall the episode. He has a history of 4 car accidents, one of which required ICU admission for 3 days. What is the likely localization for his seizure semiology?

142. A 35-year-old male presented to the emergency room with a cluster of seizures a few hours ago. He is on Lacosamide 100 mg BID and reported good compliance with the medication. He has a history of congenital heart disease. Which of the following is the next step in the management?

143. A young female presents with a right arm focal clonic seizure lasting for 1 hour, triggered by stress, and has been on four antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) with normal prolonged video-EEG results. What finding supports the diagnosis of psychogenic non-epileptic seizures?

144. Which of the following cranial nerves is primarily responsible for the sense of smell?

145. What is the risk of having a second seizure within 2 years after the first seizure?

146. Q92. A patient has been on levetiracetam (LEV) for a long time. What is a possible side effect?

147. A patient presents with no aura but has focal aware seizure presentations and is uncontrolled on two ASM. What is the next step?

148. Which of the following cranial nerves is primarily responsible for controlling the muscles of facial expression?

149. A patient with seizures who is on antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) develops aplastic anemia. What is the medication associated with this condition?

150. A young female with epilepsy wants to start oral contraceptive pills (OCP). What is the correct response?

151. Q154. A 65-year-old man presents with sudden onset of right-sided weakness and aphasia. Imaging reveals an infarct in the left middle cerebral artery territory. Which of the following is the most likely cause of his stroke?

152. A patient had moderate head trauma in a motor vehicle accident (MVA). For how long does the risk of seizure persist?

153. A child who has had 2 episodes of seizure, both occurring while he was on a train, associated with nausea and vomiting. EEG showed posterior discharges. What is the diagnosis?

154. A 26-year-old woman presents to the emergency room with 4 tonic-clonic seizures. Lorazepam and a loading dose of phenytoin have been given, and the seizures have aborted. Neurology is consulted because the patient remains unresponsive for 5 hours. What is the most appropriate next step?

155. EEG changes associated with hyperventilation?

156. A 35-year-old patient with epilepsy on anti-seizure medication (ASM) has been controlled for the last year. What carries the risk of seizure recurrence in case of medication discontinuation?

157. A 9-month-old child with a history of developmental delay and atonic spasms for seconds has an attached ECG showing hypsarrhythmia. What is the diagnosis?

158. A patient presents in adolescence with generalized tonic–clonic seizures upon awakening and prominent interictal myoclonic jerks, without any structural lesion on MRI. Which of the following best explains the mechanism of this syndrome (juvenile myoclonic epilepsy)?

159. What is the localization of juvenile myoclonic epilepsy (JME) based on the semiology of seizures with a figure of 4?

160. A 26-year-old female, who is known to have epilepsy and has had increased seizure frequency. She is pregnant and on Levetiracetam 1500 mg BID; what should you add?

161. In a child with a typical scenario of benign rolandic epilepsy, what is the finding on EEG?

162. Which of the following is the most common cause of acute ischemic stroke?

163. Which of the following cranial nerves is primarily responsible for controlling the muscles of facial expression?

164. Which of the following is the most common cause of acute ischemic stroke?

165. A patient with features of Rolandic epilepsy presents for an EEG. What is the expected finding?

166. A young male with a first-time generalized tonic-clonic seizure during the daytime has no previous seizures or risk factors. After examination, MRI, and EEG are normal. What is the 2-year recurrence risk?

167. A patient presented with hallucinations followed by a headache. What is the likely diagnosis?

168. An 18-month-old baby had one febrile seizure. What is the chance of developing epilepsy in the future?

169. A patient with epilepsy wants to get pregnant. Which of the following statements is correct?

170. What is the most common type of aura in mesial temporal lobe (MTL) seizures?

171. What is the pathology responsible for MTL (medial temporal lobe) epilepsy?

172. What is the direction of gaze deviation in a patient experiencing a seizure?

173. Q283. What is the most common cause of sudden unexpected death in epilepsy (SUDEP)?

174. Which cranial nerve is primarily responsible for the sense of smell?

175. A patient experiences an aura of palpitations and sweating. Where is the likely localization of the seizure focus?

176. What is the treatment for focal seizures?

177. Q99. Multiple seizure types with intellectual impairment, what will you see in the EEG?

178. A 53-year-old male presents with his first generalized tonic-clonic seizure and a normal EEG. He has no family history of epilepsy. What is his risk of seizure recurrence?

179. Which of the following is the most common cause of acute ischemic stroke?

180. Which of the following is the most common cause of acute ischemic stroke?

181. In a scenario involving a child with nocturnal seizures and ictal speech, which EEG finding is most likely?

182. A patient with frontal lobe epilepsy has been on antiepileptic drugs (AED) since the age of 15 and has been seizure-free for three years. Now at 18, she wants to stop her medication. What is the risk of seizure recurrence?

183. An 18-year-old male with epilepsy on valproic acid and topiramate remains uncontrolled. He was found in bed in a prone position and was announced dead upon arrival to the emergency department. What increases the risk of death in epilepsy?

184. For a patient experiencing a first-time seizure with normal imaging and EEG, what is the risk of seizure recurrence at 20 months?

185. A patient with MRI showing mesial temporal sclerosis (MTS) has a fear aura. What is the best approach to achieve long-term seizure control?

186. In a scenario about Rolandic epilepsy, what are the expected EEG findings?

187. Which antiepileptic drug (AED) is known to worsen myoclonus?

188. An old lady with diabetes mellitus, hypertension, and atrial fibrillation had an episode of syncope followed by convulsions. The episode was witnessed by the family, who reported that the patient was confused for a short period afterward. Upon presentation to the emergency department, her blood pressure was 90/70, and she was fatigued but conscious and oriented. Which of the following findings would help you with the diagnosis?

189. In a scenario with EEG showing interictal discharges, which term describes the source zone?

190. A child with a history of absence seizures and auditory agnosia is most likely diagnosed with which condition?

191. A patient with an arched back and repeated similar attacks has tried several medications with no improvement. What is the likely diagnosis?

192. Which condition shows slow spike and wave?

193. A child was seen during an interview and had continuous jerks of the right arm with few interruptions. What is the management?

194. A female patient had a seizure at the mall, described as a temporal lobe seizure. What is the recommended next step?

195. Q18. A male patient with a known history of epilepsy has been on carbamazepine and is free of seizures for a long time. Which of the following will carry the highest risk of recurrence?

196. Q253. What is the definition of ictal speech?

197. A patient with epilepsy is taking carbamazepine and valproic acid. What are the effects of these two medications?

198. A patient presents to the ER with a history of 3 unprovoked seizures, and all labs are normal. She has now returned to baseline. What should you do?

199. Q216. What are the features of right temporal epilepsy?

200. A 7-year-old boy playing PlayStation all night has facial twitching and right arm movements. The patient cannot speak during the seizure, and postictally he complains of right upper limb numbness. What is the most likely diagnosis?

201. A case of hypsarrhythmia, mental regression, and infantile spasms is presented. What is the diagnosis?

202. Male patient has migraine and seizure; what medications will you give?

203. MTS seizure with normal MRI; EEG showed right frontotemporal discharge. What is the next step?

204. A female patient on four AEDs still has abnormal movements for more than one hour, with a normal prolonged EEG and MRI brain. What is the next step?

205. A patient presented with hallucinations followed by a headache. What is the likely diagnosis?

206. A patient with Landau-Kleffner syndrome presents with auditory agnosia and aphasia. During slow-wave sleep, the patient has electrical status epilepticus during sleep (ESES). What is the diagnosis?

207. Q55. A patient has a history of no aura with a seizure while on two ASM. An EEG showed left temporal frontal spikes. What is the next step?

208. A patient presented with a history of stroke followed by one episode of generalized tonic–clonic seizure. He is a known case of well-controlled bipolar disorder. Which of the following is the most appropriate antiepileptic medication for this patient?

209. In a case where the seizure was idiopathic and the patient has a sibling with seizures, what is the risk of seizure recurrence at 4 months?

210. What is the treatment for focal seizures?

211. A male patient with early morning seizures and an EEG showing juvenile myoclonic epilepsy (JME) is being treated. Which of the following medications is appropriate?

212. A patient presents with laryngeal discomfort and tonic posturing. What type of seizure is likely occurring?

213. Q23. An EEG shows slow spikes characteristic of which condition?

214. A patient with seizure semiology that suggests Mesial Temporal Lobe Epilepsy (MTLE) with epigastric sensation and auditory hallucinations is being evaluated. What is the responsible gene?

215. A 6-year-old with a staring episode has an EEG showing 3 Hz spike‐and‐wave discharges, consistent with childhood absence epilepsy. The mother is concerned about slight developmental delay, and her skin is normal. There is a history of one of the parents having absence seizures in adulthood. Which comorbidity can be associated with this condition in the future?

216. Which of these is a characteristic of LGS?

217. In a patient with features of Rolandic epilepsy, what is the treatment?

218. Q176. A child with a typical scenario of benign rolandic epilepsy is being evaluated. What is the finding on EEG?

219. A patient with generalized tonic–clonic seizures and interictal myoclonus (typical scenario for juvenile myoclonic epilepsy). What is the mechanism?

220. In patients with head trauma, what is the risk of seizure recurrence at 12 months?

221. A patient with epilepsy denies any aura, and the MRI shows heterotopia. What is the classification of the epilepsy?

222. Young female with right arm focal clonic seizure lasting for 1 hour and triggered by stress on 4 AEDs, prolonged video EEG was repeated multiple times and was always normal. What supports the diagnosis?

223. Q7. A 3-Hz spike EEG is characteristic of which condition?

224. In the context of focal seizures, which factors favor a good prognosis?

225. Which of the following is a characteristic feature of Benign Rolandic Epilepsy of Childhood?

226. Typical JME on topiramate and well controlled; he wants to stop the medication. What is the recommendation?

227. Which of the following is NOT a common behavioral problem associated with Landau-Kleffner syndrome?

228. In a scenario of infantile spasms, if an EEG is provided, what is the EEG description?

229. Q32. A young female was brought by her family due to bizarre nocturnal hyperactive abnormal movements, with a similar history in her family. What is the appropriate antiepileptic drug (AED) to start for suspected autosomal dominant nocturnal frontal lobe epilepsy (ADNFLE)?

230. Localization of palpitation in seizure attacks is more commonly associated with which structure?

231. Q270. Patient with seizure and mental retardation, EEG showed 2Hz; what is the treatment?

232. A patient has seizure recurrence while on topiramate 200 mg and carbamazepine 400 mg bid. An EEG shows spikes in the temporal lobe, and an MRI shows mesial temporal sclerosis (MTS). What is the likely cause of the breakthrough seizures?

233. What is the typical EEG finding in a patient with Benign Rolandic Epilepsy of Childhood?

234. In a case scenario of a patient with seizure associated hypersalivation, which area of the brain is likely involved?

235. What is the risk of developing epilepsy following a febrile seizure?

236. A patient who is epileptic and on Topamax and Carbamazepine (CBZ CR) presents with breakthrough seizures. The EEG shows epileptiform discharges and the MRI shows mesial temporal sclerosis. What is the likely cause of seizures for this patient?

237. Slow spike-and-wave activity on EEG (1.5–2.5 Hz)

238. In a scenario of Lennox-Gastaut syndrome, what is the first-line treatment for drop attacks?

239. Patient with seizure; EEG showed multifocal spikes; what is the surgery for this patient?

240. Patient with a generalized tonic-clonic seizure; which factor increases the risk of seizure recurrence?

241. A patient with hyperkinetic nocturnal seizures and a positive family history. How would you treat him?

242. In focal seizures, where is the localization of the seizure in the semiology of absence?

243. A patient came with a history of right early non-forced head turning and right-side automatism. What is the localization of the seizure focus?

244. A 25-year-old pregnant lady came to the clinic and needs counseling regarding antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) during pregnancy. Which of the following statements is true?

245. What EEG finding suggests a poor prognosis?

246. A 6-month-old infant presents with typical infantile spasms and developmental delay. EEG shows hypsarrhythmia. What is the diagnosis?

247. In a scenario of mesiotemporal epilepsy, what is the typical semiology used to ask about the diagnosis?

248. A patient with features suggestive of absence seizures and EEG showing 3 Hz spike-wave discharges. Which of the following medications might worsen the seizure?

249. A 23-year-old male patient on lamotrigine 200 mg BID had a tonic-clonic seizure that was not fully controlled and came to the clinic. What medication would you add for him? All other neurological examinations are intact.

250. In the same scenario, if the patient came to the emergency room, what is the treatment?

251. A 3-year-old boy presents with auditory agnosia and delay in language development. EEG shows ESES. What is the syndrome?

252. Patient presents after a first unprovoked generalized tonic‐clonic seizure. Which of the following factors most strongly predicts an increased risk of seizure recurrence?

253. A patient came to the clinic with facial and arm twitches, and pronator drift, occasionally stopping without mention of loss of consciousness. What is the likely diagnosis?

254. What is the normal response to hyperventilation on EEG?

255. If the seizures were deemed idiopathic with spike-wave discharges on EEG, what is the risk of seizure recurrence at 18 months?

256. A patient underwent a dental procedure and experienced brief loss of consciousness. What favors a diagnosis of seizure rather than syncope?

257. In the scenario of Panayiotopoulos Syndrome, which of the following is a characteristic feature of the syndrome?

258. A 20-year-old female known to have seizures presented to the outpatient clinic. She is on Lacosamide 100 mg BID and has been compliant with her medication, with her last seizure occurring 18 months ago. Examination was unremarkable. EEG showed electrical discharges, and Brain MRI is normal. What is the next step?

259. A young lady who underwent aneurysm clipping developed seizures characterized by confusion and staring. What is the classification of these seizures?

260. A 70-year-old man with a history of obesity, hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, nephrolithiasis, and atrial fibrillation is evaluated for recent onset seizures. An MRI of the head shows an old right frontal ischemic stroke. Which of the following is the most appropriate drug for seizure treatment in this patient?

261. A patient has been on carbamazepine (CBZ) for a long time for focal epilepsy and has recently been started on valproate (VPA). What potential change should be monitored?

262. A young patient presented to the neurology outpatient clinic for epilepsy evaluation. He has seizure semiology in the form of right upper limb tonic posturing followed by limb jerking with lack of awareness, then bilateral tonic-clonic seizure. He doesn’t recall the episode. He has a history of 4 car accidents, one of which required ICU admission for 3 days. What is the best description for his seizure semiology?

263. A patient on lamotrigine wants to start oral contraceptive pills (OCP). What should you tell the patient?

264. Q25. A 25-year-old pregnant lady came to the outpatient neurology clinic for follow-up. She is a known case of epilepsy and currently on Valproic acid 500 mg daily. The last time she had a breakthrough seizure was at least 3 years ago. Her last EEG and brain MRI were normal. Which of the following is the appropriate management?

265. A child with perisylvian atrophy and unilateral weakness had initially focal seizures and then focal status epilepticus. What is the likely abnormality?

266. A female patient with a history of epilepsy experiences seizures more frequently during menstruation. What is the underlying pathophysiology?

267. What is the electrodecremental response in EEG associated with hypsarrhythmia?

268. A mother brought her 2-month-old baby with seizures and a history of the same seizures in his older brother. The seizures resolved at 8 months of age. What is the likely gene involved?

269. A 3-month-old infant has a history of clonic and possible tonic or myoclonic seizures. The sibling had a similar history that resolved. What is the likely gene affected?

270. Which of the following is associated with seizures and asymmetrical atrophy?

271. Q300. A 28-year-old man with a one-year history of episodes of posturing of both arms, described by his wife as flexion of one arm and extension of the other arm, head turn, and facial grimacing, with no loss of consciousness, occurring once a week and lasting less than 1 minute. What is the most likely localization of these symptoms?

272. Q105. (Source: Part II 2018mcqs.txt) Which AED is known to cause fingers/toes dysesthesia?

273. A 6-year-old with a history of seizures and developmental delay is found to have subependymal nodules on imaging. What is the most likely associated condition?

274. In a case of temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) with auditory features, which genetic mutation is typically asked about?

275. What is the channel involved in juvenile myoclonic epilepsy (JME)?

276. A patient with progressive myoclonus and dementia is being evaluated. How can the diagnosis be confirmed?

277. A 12-year-old patient presented with a history of seizures that started 3 years ago. The parents describe seizure semiology in the form of frequent staring episodes that cause poor school performance. Which of the following is the most likely gene mutation responsible for the patient's seizure type?

278. A patient with seizures who sometimes had febrile seizures is diagnosed with Dravet syndrome. What is the correct statement regarding this condition?

279. In a case involving Landau-Kleffner syndrome (verbal auditory agnosia and progressive aphasia) who was found to have electrographic seizures during sleep on EEG, what is the diagnosis?

280. In a scenario where an infant with myoclonus started focally and became progressive, what would you expect to see on EEG?

281. In a case of epilepsy partialis continua, what is the recommended treatment?

282. A patient presents with short stature, a long history of seizures, and multiple skin macular and cutaneous tumors. Which of the following findings is most likely associated with this condition?

283. In a patient with developmental delay and multiple seizure types (tonic spasms, drop attacks), what is the finding on EEG?

284. In a normal child with a simple febrile seizure, what is the risk of developing epilepsy?

285. A young lady who underwent tumor resection presents with a staring spell and loss of awareness. EEG shows frontal discharges. What is the classification of her seizure?

286. A patient experiences a visual aura lasting for 10 seconds followed by a headache. What is the most likely explanation for this phenomenon?

287. In a case scenario of a patient with Mesial Temporal Lobe Epilepsy (MTLE) on two sufficient anti-seizure medications, but still experiencing monthly seizures, what is the next step?

288. Q211. A history of seizures in a few months old baby, with a similar history in the older brother, is most likely associated with which genetic mutation?

289. In the same scenario of the young lady post-aneurysm clipping, what is the recommended antiepileptic drug (AED) to use? [Implicit scenario involves post-SAH/clipping seizure]

290. Patient with absence seizure; what is the medication that worsens the seizure?

291. An elderly patient with a history of diabetes mellitus, hypertension, hyperlipidemia, and osteoporosis presents with seizures. Which medication is commonly used for seizure management in this patient?

292. A patient with partial seizures has a PET scan showing hypometabolism in the perisylvian region. Which receptor is most likely involved?

293. An elderly male with a history of diabetes mellitus, hypertension, dyslipidemia, and ischemic heart disease presented with an episode of loss of consciousness preceded by sweating and palpitations. The episode lasted a few seconds, and he immediately regained full baseline. His heart rate was borderline low at 50 beats per minute. What is the most likely diagnosis?

294. Which of the following statements is true regarding absence seizures?

295. A boy with uncontrolled seizures is known to have bipolar disorder. What is the most appropriate management option for his seizures?

296. A patient has an abdominal rising sensation and déjà vu. Which of the following is involved in the pathophysiology?

297. A patient experiences an abdominal rising sensation and déjà vu. Which localization is most likely associated with this pathophysiology?

298. A 33-year-old with a history of generalized tonic-clonic seizure with an aura of a rising abdominal sensation. What is the most likely localization of the seizure focus?

299. Q10. A patient presents with a figure of 4, fencing posture, and right side nose rubbing. Which localization is most likely?

300. An elderly patient with a history of diabetes mellitus (DM), hypertension (HTN), and end-stage renal disease (ESRD) presents with a decreased level of consciousness. His wife reports that he was seeing animals just prior to deterioration. A non-contrast CT head shows a left occipital hypodensity. What will you do?

301. What is a known side effect of Vigabatrin?

302. A 5-year-old child presents with cognitive decline since 7 months of age and has frequent spasms with hypsarrhythmia. After receiving ACTH, there was some improvement. What is the likely diagnosis?

303. The drug Keppra is:

304. A 28-year-old female with a hemorrhagic lesion in the brain had a staring episode followed by post-event confusion. Which of the following is a suitable antiepileptic medication?

305. Q35. A patient with features of Rolandic epilepsy presents with what EEG finding?

306. A 45-year-old patient with a known case of diabetes mellitus (DM) and hypertension (HTN) presents with new onset seizure. A brain MRI shows a left temporal lesion (cavernoma). What is the most appropriate next step?

307. What is true about Juvenile Myoclonic Epilepsy (JME)?

308. A 30-year-old patient with seizures controlled on antiepileptic drugs (AED) developed facial redness and fatigue. What is the most likely AED causing these side effects?

309. A patient presents to the emergency room with status absence seizures. Which of the following medications can aggravate this condition?

310. In a patient with occipital seizure and migraine with aura, which of the following is in favor of visual aura?

311. A patient with intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) followed by midline shift had an external ventricular drain (EVD) inserted and then developed signs of infection. Blood and CSF cultures were sent. You want to start empirical treatment. What should you do?

312. A female patient fell from a height of 3 meters while cleaning her house and presents with severe headache and nausea. What is the most appropriate next step in her management?

313. Which of the following is a therapeutic effect of mannitol?

314. An elderly patient presented with fluctuating levels of consciousness. Which of the following should be done?

315. A patient with head trauma arrives at the emergency department conscious and oriented. After one hour, he loses consciousness and has a dilated right pupil. What abnormality would you expect to see on a brain CT?

316. Q20. A female patient post subarachnoid hemorrhage (SVD) presented with headache, visual field deficit, and suspected SIADH. With blood pressure low below 90, what is the diagnosis?

317. What is a potential complication of using hypertonic saline in the treatment of increased ICP?

318. An elderly patient was admitted after a cardiac arrest and is now in the ICU. He is intubated, sedated, and given muscle relaxants. His pupils are non-reactive, and there is no motor response. What should be done next?

319. EVD associated with infection:

320. Q155. A female patient diagnosed with cerebral venous thrombosis (CVT) was admitted to the ICU and then deteriorated. A CT scan showed brain edema. What is in favor of hypertonic saline over mannitol?

321. When should a patient with Guillain-Barré syndrome be admitted to the ICU?

322. What is the most important predictor of outcome in cardiac arrest?

323. A brain CT shows coup contrecoup injury (left frontal and right temporal bleed). What is the mechanism of injury?

324. A patient with no available history is brought to the emergency department with fever and decreased level of consciousness. A non-contrast CT scan of the brain and initial cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) analysis are both normal. What is the most appropriate next step?

325. What is the difference between mannitol and hypertonic saline?

326. Which of the following statements is true regarding the duration of effect between hypertonic saline and mannitol?

327. A patient came with high blood pressure and a picture of PRESS syndrome. What is the management?

328. Q143. A patient with a 3 mm hemorrhage in the putamen is stable but has increased edema and decreased level of consciousness. What is the appropriate treatment?

329. A patient with a long ICU stay developed neuropathy/myopathy. What is the recommended management?

330. A 19-year-old female presents with acute encephalopathy. MRI of the brain demonstrates T2/FLAIR hyperintense lesions in the basal ganglia and thalamus. What is the next best step in management?

331. What is the most important predictor of outcome in cardiac arrest?

332. In a case of subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH), the patient is found to have hyponatremia, high urine sodium, and high osmolarity. What is the appropriate treatment?

333. An elderly male presents with decreased oral intake for one week and is inattentive during examination. What would you expect to find on EEG?

334. In a Guillain-Barré syndrome scenario, what is the predicting factor for intubation?

335. Which of the following statements is true regarding mannitol and hypertonic saline in the management of increased intracranial pressure (ICP)?

336. What is a poor prognostic indicator after cardiac arrest at 24 hours?

337. What is the best predictor for a patient in a coma (not considering brain death or time)?

338. What is the threshold of intracranial pressure (ICP) that is considered abnormal?

339. Assessment of blood–brain barrier (BBB) in traumatic brain injury (TBI) is best indicated by which of the following markers?

340. A patient with ventricular hemorrhage is being evaluated for ventriculostomy. Which one of the following statements is true?

341. A patient is brought unconscious to the emergency department. A CT of the brain shows multiple hemorrhages at the anterior and posterior aspects. What is the likely mechanism of these intracranial hemorrhages?

342. What is assessed to evaluate the blood-brain barrier (BBB) in traumatic brain injury (TBI)?

343. What is the most appropriate test to order next for an elderly patient admitted with cardiac arrest who is intubated and sedated?

344. An elderly patient with a history of inability to care for himself presents with decreased level of consciousness. What would you expect to find on EEG?

345. Q3. A patient presented with visual symptoms, confusion, and is taking immunosuppressants for renal transplantation. Brain MRI showed PRES. What is the management?

346. A patient had an accident and presents with a Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) score of 5. What is the role of corticosteroids in this case?

347. What is the most important diagnostic factor in hypoxic post-cardiac arrest in comatose patients?

348. A 63-year-old male admitted with left hemiparesis underwent CABG. He was successfully extubated off sedatives. In the ICU, it was noticed that the patient is awake but not communicating and not following commands. His neurological examination showed no focal deficits. What is the best sensitive test to order?

349. An elderly female is brought to the ER with a level of consciousness that is altered. Her labs show INR of 3. A Brain CT is attached. What is the best next step?

350. Following a road traffic accident (RTA), the patient developed post-concussion syndrome. What is the reason for this condition?

351. In an elderly patient post-cardiac arrest who underwent therapeutic hypothermia and received sedation plus neuromuscular blockade for shiver control, brainstem reflexes remain absent at 24–48 hours. What is the next step?

352. In a patient with liver failure, what will you see on EEG?

353. A patient presented with confusion and recurrent seizures two days after hemodialysis, with normal imaging. What is the likely reason?

354. A patient with SAH presents with low sodium levels and high urine osmolarity. The patient is hypotensive and tachycardic. What is the appropriate treatment?

355. Which of the following is the most important predictor of outcome in cardiac arrest?

356. A 29-year-old male is found unconscious on the street. What do you expect as the mechanism of injury based on the attached CT scan?

357. What is considered a poor prognosis in burst suppression?

358. In the same scenario, what is the diagnosis based on the EEG findings?

359. A patient with renal failure missed one dialysis session. What would you expect to see on EEG?

360. What is a common side effect of hypertonic saline administration?

361. What is a potential risk associated with the use of mannitol in patients?

362. Q79. A 67-year-old female experiences recurrent episodes of headache, nausea, and vomiting shortly after dialysis. What is the most likely diagnosis?

363. What is the most important predictor of outcome in cardiac arrest?

364. Cardiac arrest in a smoker patient complicated with hypotension and intubation. After 1 month, the patient returned to the clinic with chronic headaches and dizziness. What is the pathogenesis?

365. In a case scenario of post-subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) and hyponatremia, what is the recommended treatment?

366. An elderly patient with a history of sick sinus syndrome had a pacemaker implanted and subsequently developed a right subdural hematoma. On day 3, she has decreased level of consciousness and left-sided weakness. A repeat CT shows expected postoperative changes. What is the next appropriate test?

367. In a sedated patient, which diagnostic test is least likely to provide useful information?

368. An approximately 70-year-old male patient post-CABG 2 days ago is extubated, awake but not following commands, and all labs are normal. What is the best diagnostic test?

369. A patient was in the ICU for 33 days. On the 3rd day, he has a persistent sleep-wake cycle. What is the most likely term for this condition?

370. A case of intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) with a 6 mm midline shift is presented. What is an appropriate treatment option?

371. Which test is used to assess the blood-brain barrier (BBB) in traumatic brain injury (TBI)?

372. Q61. What is assessed to evaluate the blood-brain barrier (BBB) in traumatic brain injury (TBI)?

373. In a case of intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) in the basal ganglia, what is the target blood pressure?

374. A brain CT picture shows coup and contrecoup injury. What is the most likely cause?

375. Q8. In a patient with dialysis, what is the pathophysiology behind the disequilibrium syndrome?

376. A female patient with high blood pressure (180/??) presents with seizures and confusion. MRI shows bilateral occipital cortical hyperintensity. What is the likely diagnosis?

377. A 30-year-old male was found unconscious on the street. What do you expect as the mechanism of injury for the attached CT scan, which appeared to show a coup-contrecoup bleed?

378. A patient presented with visual symptoms, confusion, and is taking immunosuppressants for renal transplantation. Brain MRI showed PRES. What is the mechanism involved?

379. A patient has an MRI showing tonsillar herniation. What is the next best step in management?

380. Q42. A patient with intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) two days later has a blood pressure of 170/90 and a marginally low platelet count of 145. What is the next best step in management?

381. A patient who was arrested by police presents with encephalopathy and has a halitosis odor. What treatment should be administered?

382. An elderly man has a 1-month history of right-sided weakness and confusion. A brain CT shows a crescentic-shaped hypodensity. What is the mechanism of the lesion?

383. A patient had cerebellar intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) near the 4th ventricle with dilated lateral ventricles and 3rd ventricle. Which of the following is the next step in management?

384. An elderly patient who suffered a cardiac arrest is not waking up. What is the next best step in management?

385. A patient presents with subarachnoid hemorrhage and hyponatremia (serum sodium 129), with a blood pressure of 100 mmHg and high serum and urine osmolarity. What is the significance of these findings?

386. Which type of brain herniation is commonly associated with a fixed dilated pupil?

387. Q69. In a case scenario about cerebellar hemorrhage, what is the next step in management?

388. A patient with acute ischemic stroke received intravenous tPA and subsequently developed difficulty with speaking and swallowing. What should be done next?

389. What EEG finding is associated with poor prognosis?

390. A patient with subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) presents with hyponatremia. What should you do?

391. In a case of trauma, which biomarker is most reliable for detecting disrupted blood-brain barrier (BBB)?

392. An EEG shows a burst suppression pattern. What is the most likely status of the patient?

393. A patient who is status post cardiac arrest and has been discharged from the hospital returns to the clinic complaining of sudden jerky movements sometimes upon touching. What is your diagnosis?

394. An elderly male with left-sided weakness and dysarthria, who is on dabigatran, underwent thrombectomy without receiving tPA. He later has a CT scan showing bleeding. What should be administered to reverse the bleeding?

395. A patient presents with acute confusion and is found to have elevated blood levels of urea. What is the most likely cause of their symptoms?

396. Hypertonic saline is contraindicated in which of the following patient populations?

397. A patient presents with a months-long headache, papilledema, and MRI demonstrating hydrocephalus with transependymal edema. Given the acute presentation with seizure and confusion, what is the next best step in management?

398. A 56-year-old male patient is found in his house with decreased level of consciousness. He was last seen normal 1 day ago. A brain CT scan is performed. What will you do?

399. A delirious patient presents. What is your next step?

400. A victim of a road traffic accident was awake for 2 hours, then the right eye pupil became fixed and dilated. What is your diagnosis?

401. For the same patient, what is the recommended treatment?

402. A young lady with SLE nephritis on dialysis presents with seizures and confusion. MRI shows findings consistent with vasogenic edema in the parieto-occipital regions and elevated blood pressure. What is your diagnosis?

403. A brain CT shows a coup contrecoup injury with left frontal and right temporal bleed. What is the most likely mechanism of injury?

404. What is the benefit of using mannitol over hypertonic saline in the management of increased intracranial pressure?

405. A mother receiving antiepileptic drugs has an infant who developed intraventricular hemorrhage (IVH). Which medication is most likely responsible?

406. A pregnant patient presents with recurrent vomiting. What should be administered?

407. Pregnant lady came with confusion and had a history of increased vomiting; she has no ophthalmology findings; what will you give?

408. Q41. An alcoholic patient was admitted after a post-traumatic seizure and delirium; he was started on levetiracetam (Keppra) and valproate (Depakin), with subsequent seizure control. Two days later he develops worsening delirium. Which of the following is the most appropriate next step?

409. A patient who has recently delivered vaginally and is experiencing eclampsia presents with progressive flaccid paralysis. What is the next best step in management?

410. A patient developed cognitive impairment and ataxia. MRI showed high signals in the mammillary bodies. What is the most likely deficiency?

411. A pregnant lady came with confusion and had a history of increased vomiting; she has no ophthalmology findings. What will you give?

412. A patient was on warfarin and developed intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH). Which of the following has the best efficacy to manage this condition?

413. An alcoholic patient came with post-traumatic seizure and delirium. He was on Keppra and Depakin, then the seizure improved; after 2 days, the patient had worsening of his delirium. What will you do?

414. What is the best imaging modality for diffuse axonal injury?

415. A patient presents with acute inattentiveness. Laboratory tests including liver function tests, electrolyte levels, and a non-contrast CT scan of the brain are all normal. Which of the following best explains this presentation?

416. Q154. A patient presented to the emergency room with meningitis and no papilledema, what is the appropriate management?

417. Q19. What is the management of hyponatremia due to cerebral salt wasting syndrome?

418. A 60-year-old male presented to the ER with a 2-day history of unilateral weakness and dysarthria. On examination, his blood pressure is 70/90 mmHg [Likely typo, assume 170/90 or similar elevated BP]. What is the next step in the management?

419. A patient came after head trauma and was fine initially. After one hour, he started to have a decrease in level of consciousness (LOC). What type of hematoma is most likely?

420. An elderly patient is intubated with intact level of consciousness but is only able to move his extraocular muscles. What is the next step in workup?

421. A patient on sedation has EEG findings suggestive of bilateral generalized slowing. What is the next best step in management?

422. A male elderly patient with liver disease and hypertension presents with decreased and fluctuating level of consciousness. Laboratory tests show high liver function tests, high renal function tests, and high ammonia levels. What is the most likely diagnosis?

423. A patient known to have congenital heart disease presents with headache, fever, and hemiparesis. What will you do next?

424. In the assessment of brain death, which of the following is a critical step?

425. A 6-year-old female has recurrent episodes of headache, nausea, and vomiting that occur shortly after dialysis sessions. What is the possible mechanism to explain these symptoms?

426. Which of the following is a mechanism by which hypertonic saline reduces intracranial pressure?

427. In a case of warfarin-related intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) with an INR of 3, what will you give for immediate reversal?

428. A 65-year-old man presents with an abrupt severe headache and drowsiness. His Glasgow Coma Scale score falls to 9. A repeat CT scan shows no change in hematoma size but marked enlargement of the third and lateral ventricles. Which of the following interventions is most likely to improve this patient’s clinical status?

429. Q75. A pregnant lady had a headache, and her CT showed an intracranial hemorrhage (ICH). What is the treatment?

430. Q2. A brain CT shows a coup-contrecoup injury with left frontal and right temporal bleed. What is the most likely mechanism of injury?

431. In a patient with ICH on CT brain and an International Normalized Ratio (INR) of 3.2, which treatment is recommended?

432. Q192. What is the primary benefit of administering anticonvulsants during the first week after traumatic brain injury (TBI)?

433. Which of the following occurs within an hour of IV infusion of mannitol?

434. Q25. In a similar scenario to the previous one, what is the most likely diagnosis?

435. To differentiate between frontotemporal dementia (FTD) and Alzheimer's disease (AD), which imaging modality is most useful?

436. A patient presents with visual hallucinations and fluctuating levels of consciousness, with symptoms suggesting parkinsonism. What is the most likely diagnosis?

437. A 70-year-old male presents with cognitive decline, ataxia, and a startle response. What is the likely diagnosis?

438. A 70-year-old male presented with a shuffling gait, freezing, and urinary incontinence. Upon examination, he has a stooped posture and unsteady gait. What is the diagnosis?

439. A patient presents with hyperphagia, personality changes, and memory loss. What is the likely diagnosis?

440. A patient with increasing forgetfulness had to change his bank ATM card because he misplaced it. This has affected his activities of daily living (ADLs), but he is doing well at work. This presentation is suggestive of:

441. Dementia with Lewy Bodies (DLB)

442. In a scenario of Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI), what is the recommended treatment?

443. For the same patient, what treatment would you recommend?

444. In the context of Dementia with Lewy Bodies (DLB), which medication is used for cognitive symptoms?

445. Korsakoff dementia is characterized by impairment of which type of memory?

446. In the case of Gerstmann syndrome, what is the associated language deficit?

447. This is a 70-year-old female with a history of short-term memory impairment, long-term memory not affected, and depression with withdrawal from people. CSF shows low amyloid and positive tau. What is the diagnosis?

448. Q67. The second most common neurodegenerative dementia is:

449. A patient came with behavioral changes; what is the gene defect?

450. Q42. (Source: Part I 2022mcqs.txt) What is the most common memory type affected in Korsakoff's encephalopathy?

451. A 56-year-old female presents with behavioral changes and personality alterations. She starts talking to strangers and receives warnings from work due to inappropriate sexual jokes. She has poor personal hygiene and a Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) score of 28/30. What is the diagnosis?

452. For the same patient, what treatment would you recommend?

453. Q79. What is the best test to check cognitive impairment in a patient with MCI?

454. A 58-year-old female presents with changes in behavior, memory issues, and visual hallucinations. MRI shows frontal and parietal atrophy. What is the diagnosis?

455. Q59. A 60-year-old university professor started to forget things and frequently loses his bank cards, but it is not affecting his job. The patient is worried about his memory. What is the most likely diagnosis?

456. Q47. Apathy is more commonly seen in which of the following conditions?

457. Typical clinical history is suggestive of Lewy Body Dementia (LBD); PET showed a posterior corpus callosum abnormality (image non‐specific). What is the most likely diagnosis?

458. A 77-year-old man with a 3-year history of personality changes and cognitive impairment reports seeing small animals around him. His wife notes that there are days when he is extremely confused and agitated, and days when he is closer to his prior baseline. What is the most likely diagnosis?

459. Q44. A 62-year-old male exhibits inappropriate behavior, impaired social functioning, and a tendency to eat sweets. He pays no attention to personal hygiene for the last year. A PET scan shows frontal and temporal hypometabolism. What is the most likely diagnosis?

460. A patient with cognitive decline also presents with urinary incontinence and a magnetic gait. What is the most likely diagnosis?

461. A patient presents with the classic triad of normal pressure hydrocephalus (gait disturbance, cognitive impairment, urinary incontinence) and is also diagnosed with abdominal tuberculosis. What is the most appropriate management?

462. A 67-year-old male is brought to the clinic because of cognitive decline and multiple neurological symptoms over the last 6 months. Initially, he stopped worrying about his job and started to exhibit unusual behaviors. He leaves the house without showering, then he became apathetic and anhedonic. For the last month, he has ataxia, frequent falls, and myoclonic jerks. An MRI was obtained and shown. What is the most likely diagnosis?

463. Pathology showed Lewy bodies. What is the diagnosis?

464. Apathy is more commonly seen in which condition?

465. Q7. The nonfluent/agrammatic variant of primary progressive aphasia (nfvPPA) is primarily associated with atrophy in which brain region?

466. In a patient with normal semantic and language function, what is the pathology associated with behavioral variant frontotemporal dementia (bvFTD)?

467. A patient exhibits word-finding difficulties and behavioral changes. What is the most likely diagnosis?

468. A patient with a history of neuropsychiatric symptoms and dementia for more than 5 years had PrPSc. What is the diagnosis?

469. In an Alzheimer patient, what are the expected cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) results?

470. Q86. What helps differentiate Alzheimer's disease from frontotemporal dementia?

471. A patient presents with one year of progressive apathy and memory loss. What is the most likely diagnosis?

472. Cholinesterase inhibitors are most useful for which condition?

473. An elderly man has been acting out his dreams, kicking his wife, and experiencing vivid visual hallucinations. His delirium workup was negative. What is the most likely diagnosis?

474. A patient comes with progressive dementia over the last 6 months, exhibiting startle and sensory myoclonus. A DWI image shows a cortical ribbon sign. What is the likely diagnosis?

475. Q91. Typical history of Lewy Body Dementia (LBD), PET showed posterior corpus callosum abnormality (the picture is not obvious); what is the diagnosis?

476. In the same scenario of MCI, what is the conversion rate of cognitive impairment to dementia?

477. Q64. The same imaging findings as previous but with agrammatic aphasia are present. What is the diagnosis?

478. A patient exhibits changes in eating habits towards sweet foods. Imaging shows changes consistent with frontotemporal dementia (FTD). What is the diagnosis?

479. Which disorder most commonly presents with apathy?

480. In the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE), which component carries the highest weight?

481. A male patient was brought to the hospital by his wife for forgetfulness issues. He has difficulty with speech expression with his friends, which has made his social life difficult. On examination, he couldn’t recall 3 items on the MMSE. He has impaired naming and repetition, with intact comprehension. Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?

482. A male patient was brought to the hospital by his wife for forgetfulness issues. He has difficulty with speech expression with his friends, which has made his social life difficult. On examination, he couldn’t recall 3 items on the MMSE. He has impaired naming and repetition, with intact comprehension. Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?

483. A 77-year-old man came with his wife to the clinic with a 3-year history of personality changes and cognitive impairment. She reported that he keeps seeing small animals around him and he moves a lot while he is sleeping. There are days when he is extremely confused and agitated and days when he is closer to his prior baseline. What is the most likely diagnosis?

484. In a patient with mild cognitive impairment who is still independent, what is the most appropriate management option?

485. A patient exhibits changes in eating habits towards sweet foods. Imaging shows changes consistent with frontotemporal dementia (FTD). What is the diagnosis?

486. The same imaging findings as previous but with agrammatic aphasia are present. What is the diagnosis?

487. A 77-year-old man came with his wife to the clinic with a 3-year history of personality changes and cognitive impairment. She reported that he keeps seeing small animals around him and he moves a lot while he is sleeping. There are days when he is extremely confused and agitated and days when he is closer to his prior baseline. What is the most likely diagnosis?

488. In a patient with Alzheimer’s Dementia, what is the most common symptom observed?

489. Q128. What is the pathology associated with ALS-FTD?

490. A patient presents with apathy and cerebral atrophy, along with changes in eating habits. Imaging from a PET scan and brain MRI shows decreased metabolism in the frontal and temporal lobes, particularly in the left frontal lobe. What is the diagnosis?

491. What is the second most common cause of dementia?

492. In Alzheimer’s dementia, which gene mutation is related to earlier onset?

493. In the context of primary progressive aphasia, which of the following is true regarding the semantic variant (PPA-S)?

494. Which of the following suggests Alzheimer Disease (AD) rather than Lewy Body Dementia (LBD)?

495. An Alzheimer’s patient presents with depression symptoms (sadness, insomnia) and agitation. What medication would you give?

496. Alzheimer’s dementia is most commonly related to which gene mutation?

497. What clinical features help to distinguish Dementia with Lewy Bodies (DLB) from Alzheimer Disease (AD)?

498. What is the LBD PET finding associated with?

499. In the context of Alzheimer's Disease (AD), which medication is considered first-line for hallucinations and agitation?

500. Rivastigmine is the only cholinesterase inhibitor FDA approved for use in which condition?

501. A 55-year-old man presents with a 3-month history of rapidly progressive behavioral changes, dementia, myoclonus, and truncal ataxia. Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?

502. An Alzheimer patient presents with CSF results showing low amyloid beta and high tau levels. What does this indicate?

503. Q5. A picture of ribboning is presented. What is the most likely diagnosis?

504. A patient with progressive myoclonus and dementia is suspected to have which condition?

505. What is the best test to check cognitive impairment with Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI)?

506. A patient with Parkinson’s disease presents with hallucinations and memory problems. What medication should be given?

507. In a case scenario of a Parkinson's disease patient presenting with hallucinations and memory problems, what is the recommended treatment?

508. A Parkinson’s patient presents with worsening visual hallucinations and progressive memory loss. What is the most appropriate treatment?

509. A husband reported that his wife started to have gait instability that worsened over 5 years, becoming bed-bound and associated with elements of dementia. Which condition is most likely?

510. An 80-year-old patient presents with concerns about his memory function, as he is forgetting names and where he is putting his belongings. He is totally independent. What is the likely diagnosis?

511. An 80-year-old patient presents with concerns about his memory function, as he is forgetting names of people and where he is putting his belongings; he is totally independent. What is the diagnosis?

512. A 63-year-old male has a 4-year history of Parkinson's Disease with visual hallucinations. What is the most likely diagnosis?

513. What is the second most common type of neurodegenerative dementia?

514. Which of the following is a common side effect of cholinesterase inhibitors in individuals with parkinsonism?

515. What is the mechanism of action of Donepezil?

516. A patient with frontotemporal dementia (FTD) shows frontal and temporal atrophy on MRI. What is the most likely diagnosis?

517. A patient with dementia presents with insomnia and agitation. What medication would you prescribe?

518. An elderly patient presented to the neurology clinic with complaints of progressive memory problems. The physician prescribed medication for him. After 2 weeks, he presented with nausea, anorexia, and diarrhea. Which of the following is the most likely prescribed medication?

519. A patient presents with young-onset familial Alzheimer’s disease and a family history of the condition. What is the gene associated with this type of Alzheimer’s?

520. A young patient presents with Alzheimer’s disease with a family history of autosomal dominant inheritance. Which genetic mutation is most commonly associated with early-onset Alzheimer’s disease?

521. In a scenario about DLB, if a patient developed hallucinations and psychiatric symptoms, which treatment is indicated?

522. Which type of pathology is most commonly associated with the semantic variant of primary progressive aphasia (semantic dementia)?

523. A young patient with a history of memory loss has a family history of similar issues. Which gene is most likely involved?

524. Q101. In the context of Lewy body dementia, which of the following behavioral symptoms is commonly observed?

525. What is the most likely diagnosis for a patient with a PET scan showing low FDG uptake in the parietal cortex and temporal and frontal regions in advanced stages?

526. Which gene is related to early onset Alzheimer’s disease (AD)?

527. What is the drug that showed evidence to treat visual hallucinations in dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB)?

528. Which of the following conditions is characterized by 3-repeat tau and ubiquitin?

529. Which of the following genes is commonly linked to Alzheimer's disease?

530. Which of the following genes is associated with familial Alzheimer’s disease?

531. Which of the following most accurately summarizes the current situation with respect to the use of cholinesterase inhibitors to delay or prevent the progression from Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) to Alzheimer’s disease or other forms of dementia?

532. A young man with a family history of early onset Alzheimer disease. Which of the following genes increases the risk of sporadic Alzheimer disease?

533. A patient with dementia has insomnia and agitation. What medication would you prescribe?

534. An individual with mild cognitive impairment is more likely to progress to dementia or Alzheimer disease if he/she:

535. A patient came with behavioral changes; what is the gene defect?

536. A male patient presents with recent behavioral changes, and MRI shows frontal and temporal atrophy. What is the most likely diagnosis?

537. Cognitive symptoms in Lewy body dementia are treated with which of the following medications?

538. Q59. A patient with a history of memory changes and forgetfulness has cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) analysis showing high tau protein and low amyloid levels. What is the most likely diagnosis?

539. An elderly male was brought in by his family with urinary incontinence for years and cognitive decline (MMSE 25/30). He has bradykinesia, mild rigidity, and a shuffling gait with magnetic gait. MRI shows ventriculomegaly and mild volume loss. What is your management?

540. Declarative memory with remembering past experiences is referred to as:

541. A 56-year-old male with a history of memory loss for 24 hours and asking the same question repeatedly should undergo which investigation?

542. Q217. Cognitive fluctuation is more common in which of the following conditions?

543. What is the mechanism of action of donepezil?

544. In a case of transient global amnesia (TGA) lasting 4 hours, with the patient confused, repeating questions, and preserving identity, what is the next step in management?

545. Fatigue during the daytime and increased sleepiness in a patient with Alzheimer’s disease is due to which of the following?

546. Q41. What is the commonest pathological change in neurodegenerative diseases?

547. A 52-year-old woman presents with behavioral changes over the course of 2 years. Her concentration is decreasing, making it difficult to accomplish her work, and she does not care about her poor performance. She has gained 25 pounds in 4 months, is charged at work for telling inappropriate jokes, has stopped bathing, and refuses to take care of her personal hygiene. On examination, she has grasp and palmo-mental reflexes but no other abnormalities. Her MMSE is 29/30, but her clock drawing test was poor. What is the diagnosis?

548. Q51. A case scenario of a patient with urinary urgency, gait problems, and memory problems, with MRI showing very extensive white matter lesions. What is the most likely diagnosis?

549. A case of a child with a rash on the face, contralateral hemiparesis, and radiographic findings of gyral calcifications giving a tram-track appearance is most likely:

550. In neonatal mild hypoxic ischemic encephalopathy, what is the most common presentation?

551. A case of a child with café au lait spots, axillary freckling, and Lisch nodules is indicative of:

552. What is the first-line treatment for migraine in children?

553. When should brain imaging be performed in pediatric patients with headaches?

554. An infant presented with choreoathetosis and hearing loss. Brain MRI reported globus pallidus hyperintensity. What is the most likely diagnosis?

555. In a patient with tic disorder and ADHD, which medication is commonly used?

556. In a case of Sturge-Weber syndrome (hint: port wine stain on the face), what associated condition is commonly asked about?

557. A neonate developed seizures within 24 hours of birth and has high bilirubin. What would be the most affected area on MRI?

558. A pregnant woman at 10 weeks is concerned about the side effects of steroids. Which of the following is a potential risk?

559. Q79. A patient with facial weakness and seizures presents with what other condition?

560. A 10-year-old boy has a headache that is preceded by red circular colors for a few seconds. What is the most likely diagnosis?

561. In a young child presenting with seizures, hypotonia, and a cherry red spot, which enzyme is affected?

562. A baby presents with diplopia, dysarthria, ataxia followed by headache. What is the most likely diagnosis?

563. What is the indication for brain imaging in a pediatric patient with migraine?

564. A 7-year-old boy presents with visual hallucinations in the form of colorful and circular objects moving from right to left, lasting for seconds to minutes, sometimes followed by a headache. An EEG shows occipital lobe spikes. What is the management?

565. A scenario of a child with head trauma followed by loss of consciousness after 1 hour is suggestive of which condition?

566. In a case of Sturge-Weber syndrome (hint: port wine stain on the face), what associated condition is commonly asked about?

567. Which antipsychotic medication has the highest risk of weight gain?

568. Which condition is improved with acetylcholinesterase inhibitors?

569. A patient with new-onset behavioral changes is referred first to psychiatry and then to neurology. What is the next step in management?

570. Q1. What is the most common psychiatric manifestation of Wilson's disease?

571. Anxiety most commonly complicates which of the following diseases?

572. A delirious patient presents to the emergency department. What is your next step?

573. In Alzheimer's disease, which antipsychotic medication is known to increase weight?

574. A 60-year-old male patient had visual loss and denied it. Upon examination, he had a visual field defect. What is the diagnosis?

575. Q29. Which of the following is a common psychiatric manifestation in Wilson's disease?

576. Which of the following antipsychotic medications has the highest affinity for D2 dopamine receptors?

577. Which of the following antipsychotic medications causes the most weight gain?

578. An elderly patient presented with a visual field defect but denied having left homonymous hemianopia. A CT brain scan was performed. What is the explanation for her issue?

579. After a traumatic brain injury (TBI), a patient wakes up apathetic. Which part of the brain is likely affected?

580. In a case of Gerstmann syndrome, what is the associated language deficit?

581. What is the primary characteristic that differentiates apraxia of speech from dysarthria?

582. An epilepsy patient on Levetiracetam presents with low mood. What would be a feature of depression?

583. A soldier who was driving a military tank that exploded has some injuries, but two of his friends died. He dreams at night, feels guilt, and wishes to leave the army. What is the most likely diagnosis?

584. An elderly patient presents with symptoms of delirium, showing decreased attention but no focal neurological signs. A CT scan of the brain and metabolic panel including CBC and U&E are normal. What is the next step in management?

585. A middle-aged male presented to the outpatient clinic with his father, who stated that the patient had changed in the last few months. He is slower in cognitive function and has recently changed in personality, becoming easily agitated. He has a past history of a motor vehicle accident 3 years ago that resulted in 3 days of ICU admission. What is the appropriate next step?

586. A young female presents with a right arm focal clonic seizure lasting for 1 hour, triggered by stress, while on 4 antiepileptic drugs (AEDs). Prolonged video EEG was repeated multiple times and was always normal. What is the treatment?

587. A bus driver has a seizure and requests that you do not inform his employer about the seizure. What will you do?

588. A patient with refractory epilepsy is scheduled for EMU admission after a 1-year wait. The chairman calls in to cancel the admission and schedule his relative instead, who has a history of syncope. What should you do?

589. A patient with a traumatic brain injury (TBI) wakes up and exhibits apathy. Which lobe of the brain is likely affected?

590. A patient with epilepsy, a trucker, asked you, his physician, not to disclose this information to his employer. What should you do?

591. A patient with generalized tonic-clonic seizures believes his condition is caused by the devil and the evil eye. He refuses treatment and wants to see a spiritual healer, which his family supports. What would you do?

592. A 50-year-old male patient presents with confusion and delirium without fever, which has since resolved. He does not remember what happened in the last two days, and the basic workup (laboratory studies, head CT) is normal. What should be done next?

593. Q109. A patient on pregabalin, suspected of drug abuse, is evaluated. What should you do?

594. In a patient with Parkinson's disease who is experiencing hallucinations while on pramipexole, what is the recommended management?

595. A patient with Parkinson’s disease (PD) on multiple agents developed hallucinations. What is the recommended management?

596. A female presents with abnormal movements and a greenish corneal ring (Kayser-Fleischer rings). What is the most common psychiatric presentation?

597. A patient on pramipexol for Parkinson's Disease (PD) develops hallucinations. What is the recommended action?

598. Q44. What is the management of functional tremor?

599. In Balint syndrome, which one of these clinical pictures is one of the presentations?

600. A patient with Parkinson's disease has developed dementia after several years and is now agitated. He is currently on Levodopa/Carbidopa and Rivastigmine. What is the appropriate treatment for his agitation?

601. Q27. Which of the following findings is in favor of a diagnosis of functional tremor?

602. A newly diagnosed Huntington's disease patient states that he does not want to inform his employer. What should you do?

603. A patient diagnosed with ALS, his son asks you not to tell his father about the diagnosis. What should you do?

604. A patient with Parkinson's Disease on treatment presents with visual hallucinations and agitation. Which antipsychotic will you give?

605. In a patient with Wernicke's aphasia, which of the following symptoms is most commonly observed?

606. A patient presents with a right occipital lesion and visual field defect. What condition could be associated with this finding?

607. Patients present with symptoms suggestive of a mitochondrial disorder. What investigation will be most helpful?

608. A young patient presents with neuropathy, headache, and visual symptoms. An MRI shows anterior temporal and occipital changes versus atrophy. What is the most appropriate next step?

609. A young patient has tics and seizures, and MRI shows diffuse high signal intensity. How can the diagnosis be made?

610. In a typical scenario of MELAS, how can the diagnosis be made?

611. Q62. A 16-year-old female presented with oculomotor apraxia and ataxia; she had normal immunoglobulin levels and high AFP. What is the diagnosis?

612. A 20-year-old patient presents with ataxia, spasticity, sensorimotor neuropathy, hypometric saccades, and brain MRI shows mild cerebellar atrophy. What is the most likely diagnosis?

613. Q33. Which of the following brain MRI findings is characteristic of Kearns-Sayre Syndrome?

614. A patient presents with ataxia and has a family history of X-linked recessive disorders. What is the most likely diagnosis?

615. An engineer diagnosed with Huntington’s disease requests that you do not inform his employer about his condition. What is the appropriate response?

616. A child with insomnia and low gonadotropin levels underwent an MRI that showed agenesis of the olfactory bulb. What is the most likely diagnosis?

617. Q19. What is the typical age of onset for Kearns-Sayre Syndrome?

618. A young male presents with spastic paraparesis and a positive family history. MRI of the brain shows confluent white matter changes, while the MRI of the spine is normal. He has two first-degree male relatives with the same presentation. What is the most likely diagnosis?

619. A patient came with ataxia, optic atrophy, hearing loss, and slow saccades; what is the diagnosis?

620. A 14-year-old boy presents with lancinating pain in his feet. His sister has similar symptoms. There is a significant family history of strokes in his maternal grandfather before age 50. On examination, he has diminished pain sensation distally. His lower extremities show no skin lesions. What is the best test to diagnose?

621. A case of spastic paraplegia with a family history of multiple sclerosis in the brother shows periventricular white matter lesions on MRI. What is the gene associated with this condition?

622. A young male presents with early dementia and bilateral lower limb weakness. His brothers are similarly affected, and MRI shows diffuse white matter lesions. What is the diagnosis?

623. A 20-year-old patient presents with a 10-year history of lower limb proximal weakness and difficulty standing from a sitting position. He has siblings with the same problem, and his parents are related. EMG findings are not available, and CK levels are 2800. What is the chance that the patient will pass the disease to his offspring?

624. A patient presents with hypomelanotic lesions. Which condition is most likely?

625. Q47. Which of the following is a major criterion for Tuberous Sclerosis (TS)?

626. Q134. Which gene is associated with oculomotor apraxia and hypercholesterolemia?

627. In a scenario about Xeroderma pigmentosum, what are the symptoms associated with skin lesions and keratitis after sun exposure?

628. A young male with diabetes mellitus presents with gait and limb ataxia, lower limb weakness, and hearing loss. Examination shows lower limb weakness and areflexia. What is the most appropriate next step in management?

629. Q166. In Huntington's disease, how many gene repeats are typically present?

630. Q130. A case of ADHD is presented alongside a hyperpigmented brownish skin lesion with axillary freckling. Which condition is most likely?

631. A patient presents with ADHD and hypermelanotic diagnosis. What is the likely condition?

632. A newly diagnosed Huntington’s disease patient wishes not to inform his employer about his condition. What should you do?

633. In a case of Kearns-Sayre syndrome, what is the most common mutation associated with the condition?

634. In a case of Refsum’s disease, a patient had trouble with vision during the night and has polyneuropathy. What is the diagnosis?

635. In a scenario of Fabry disease, what is the enzyme that is defective?

636. Q168. Case of X-linked inheritance (all the men in the family have similar symptoms); what is the answer?

637. Q177. Same scenario asking about diagnosis:

638. In a case of Fabry disease, what is the recommended treatment?

639. Q30. A patient with Marfanoid habitus and lens dislocation is being evaluated. What treatment will you give to him?

640. A patient has had two strokes, sensory peripheral neuropathy, and a skin rash. What enzyme is involved in this disease?

641. Which of the following cardiac abnormalities is commonly associated with Kearns-Sayre Syndrome?

642. In the scenario of Wilson's disease, what is the recommended treatment?

643. What is the common genetic mutation found in most patients with Kearns-Sayre Syndrome?

644. A young male patient presented for evaluation of limb numbness. He is complaining of paresthesia and burning sensation over the hands. He is also following with cardiology regarding coronary artery disease. On physical examination, there are lymphadenopathy, enlarged tonsils, and hepatomegaly. Which of the following is a common finding during laboratory evaluation for this disorder (Tangier disease)?

645. What is the mode of inheritance for Fahr disease?

646. How should a young patient with Wilson disease be treated?

647. What is the key enzyme deficiency in the diagnosis of Fabry Disease?

648. A patient with ADHD has a mother with brown pigmentations in her neck. What is the diagnosis?

649. What is the case for the diagnosis of Fabry Disease?

650. In a scenario of symptoms suggestive of Fabry disease, what is the treatment?

651. What would be the response to a dopamine agonist in a patient who does not respond to L-dopa?

652. A scenario is typical for Guillain-Barré Syndrome (GBS) except that the patient had intermittent epigastric pain with recent vaccination and facial sweating. What is the likely diagnosis?

653. A patient presents with recurrent falls and an abnormal brain MRI, with a family history of similar symptoms. What is the likely diagnosis?

654. In a case scenario of spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) suggestive of autosomal recessive inheritance, what is the likelihood of being affected in the offspring?

655. A child with insomnia and low gonadotropin levels underwent an MRI that showed agenesis of the olfactory bulb. What is the likely diagnosis?

656. A patient exhibits startle reflex with sudden closure of his eyelids, worsening with cold. What is the gene or channel involved?

657. Q76. What are potential endocrine abnormalities associated with Kearns-Sayre Syndrome?

658. Q450. A scenario presents with oculomotor apraxia, spasticity, myoclonic seizures, and hepatosplenomegaly. Which of the following is the most likely associated enzyme deficiency?

659. Q294. What is the likely diagnosis for a patient presenting with hyperammonemia and low L-citrulline levels?

660. Which disease is characterized by the presence of globoid cells?

661. A patient with ADHD presents with light brown lesions. What is the most likely diagnosis?

662. In a scenario of Fabry disease, what is the enzyme that is defective?

663. Case of X-linked inheritance (all the men in the family have similar symptoms); what is the answer?

664. Same scenario asking about diagnosis:

665. Pediatric patient had a bullous rash that worsens with sun exposure, and he has conjunctivitis; what is the diagnosis?

666. A child presents with encephalopathy and hyperammonemia. What is the diagnosis?

667. Q22. A patient presents with blurry vision, ataxia, and ophthalmoplegia. Which condition is most likely?

668. Pediatric patient had mental retardation, tremor, and ataxia; his sister had ovarian insufficiency; what is the typical imaging finding?

669. Q296. An infant presents with a head circumference at the 100th percentile, height at the 10th percentile, and weight at the 20th percentile. The infant also has multiple café au lait spots and axillary flickering [freckling]. What is the most likely diagnosis?

670. A 7-year-old boy presents with myoclonic epilepsy, cognitive decline, and hypotonia. Pathology shows lysosome accumulation. Which of the following conditions is most likely?

671. In a case of Neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) with light brown macules, what is the name of the skin lesion?

672. A child with a facial port wine stain and a CT brain showing tram-track calcification is diagnosed with:

673. A 2-week-old infant developed progressive hypotonia and feeding difficulties. He was found to have increased branched-chain amino acids in urine. What is the diagnosis?

674. A 60-year-old male presented at age 40 with ophthalmoplegia and visual symptoms but no visual loss. Later, at age 50, he developed parkinsonism and gait issues along with cardiac symptoms. What is the likely diagnosis?

675. A 4-year-old male patient presents with microcephaly, seizures, and has a musty odor to his urine. Which of the following conditions is most likely?

676. Phenylketonuria (PKU) is caused by a defect in the hydroxylation of which amino acid?

677. Which of the following is a symptom of untreated Phenylketonuria (PKU)?

678. A child presents with areas of sun-exposed pigmentation, eye problems, and seizures. What is the most likely diagnosis?

679. Pediatric patients with presentations suggestive of Menkes disease (friable hair) will typically show which of the following findings?

680. A child is diagnosed with ataxia-telangiectasia. Which of the following is a common non-neurologic sign associated with this condition?

681. A 10-year-old boy has impaired vision, progressive cognitive decline, and myoclonic seizures. MRI shows grey matter predominance. Biopsy shows lysosomal materials. What is the diagnosis?

682. A child presents with short stature, microcephaly, sensorineural hearing loss (SNHL), developmental delay, and optic atrophy. Which of the following is the most likely associated finding?

683. Q16. A 4-year-old male patient with microcephaly and seizures has brown hair and musty odor urine. What is the likely diagnosis?

684. Which of the following metabolic diseases is associated with bilateral subdural hematoma?

685. A hypotonic baby with colorless hair and seizures has a CT brain showing subdural collection. What lab findings are expected in Glutaric aciduria type 1 (GA1)?

686. A young boy presents with cognitive decline and behavioral changes, and has very long-chain fatty acids (VLCFA) in his blood. What is the most likely diagnosis?

687. A patient with developmental delay and bilateral basal ganglia high signal intensity. What is the diagnosis?

688. A child presents with encephalopathy and hyperammonemia. What is the diagnosis?

689. Pediatric patient had hepatosplenomegaly, hypotonia, flaccid paralysis, MRI showed white matter changes; what is the diagnosis?

690. A pediatric patient had bullous lesions that worsen with sun exposure, and he has conjunctivitis. What is the diagnosis?

691. In a typical scenario of CADASIL, which gene is associated with the condition?

692. In a case of Gaucher disease, which visual manifestation is commonly observed?

693. A patient presents in early childhood with developmental delay. Brain MRI shows symmetric high T2 signal intensity in the basal ganglia. What is the most likely diagnosis?

694. A 5-year-old male with developmental delay shows bilateral symmetrical putamen and globus pallidus signal changes. What is the most likely diagnosis?

695. Q171. A pediatric patient had hepatosplenomegaly, hypotonia, flaccid paralysis, and MRI showed white matter changes. What is the diagnosis?

696. Q287. A patient presents with an ischemic stroke and exhibits marfanoid habitus. What is the most appropriate long-term treatment?

697. In a typical scenario of MELAS, how can the diagnosis be made?

698. Q242. A young patient has tics and seizures. An MRI showed diffuse high signal intensity. How can the diagnosis be made?

699. A patient presents with seven flat brown lesions. What is the most likely diagnosis?

700. Q103. A patient with stroke and marfanoid features is being treated. What is the recommended treatment? (Scenario suggests homocystinuria)

701. Patient came with Leber optic neuropathy; what is your next step?

702. Q449. In a scenario suggestive of oculomotor apraxia, what is the gene associated with this condition?

703. A patient with mitochondrial encephalomyopathy, lactic acidosis, and stroke‐like episodes (MELAS) presents with new-onset tic manifestations. What is the most appropriate diagnostic procedure?

704. A patient with a family history of speech and motor issues is brought in for evaluation. The family is concerned about the child's IQ and potential genetic conditions. Which test would be appropriate to confirm or rule out fragile X syndrome?

705. An elderly 50-year-old patient presents with seizures and has a history of recurrent emergency room visits due to vague abdominal pain. What laboratory test should be requested?

706. You inherited a 14-year-old boy who was diagnosed with Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) at age 4. You found that maternal relatives are affected by DMD. What will you request for his mother?

707. A 30-year-old female presents with progressive gait and limb ataxia. Genetic testing reveals a mutation in the ataxin-3 gene. What is the most likely diagnosis?

708. In a child with dopa‐responsive dystonia, what is the gene responsible?

709. In a child with dopa-responsive dystonia, what is the gene responsible?

710. Q16. A patient with migraine headaches has a family history of early stroke (father died young from a stroke). To establish a diagnosis, what should you do?

711. Q2. (Source: Part 2 - 2023mcqs.txt) Which of the following is associated with Congenital Myasthenia Gravis?

712. Q247. A 40-year-old male patient presented with a history of left-sided weakness, numbness, and dysarthria. He was found to have a stroke and reported a history of migraine headaches and cognitive decline. His father died at a young age. What will you order in this case?

713. Between the optic tract and the visual cortex, which structure is located?

714. A patient has tongue deviation to the left. Which area of the brain is likely affected?

715. Prosopagnosia is primarily associated with which brain region?

716. What is the localization of prosopagnosia?

717. In a case of Gerstmann syndrome, where is the lesion typically found?

718. Prosopagnosia is localized to which area?

719. Which of the following embryogenic cells gives rise to the cerebral cortex?

720. Q24. A patient has impaired fluency and repetition but intact comprehension. Where is the localization?

721. A patient presents with fluent speech, impaired comprehension, naming, and repetition. Where is the lesion?

722. In a patient with obstructive hydrocephalus, which cranial nerve is most likely involved?

723. A patient exhibits agraphia, acalculia, and finger agnosia (Gerstmann Syndrome). What type of aphasia is typically associated with this condition?

724. A patient presented with ipsilateral tremor and Horner syndrome, and contralateral complete loss of pain and temperature sensation. Normal vibration and position sensation were noted. Where is the localization?

725. A patient presents with right-sided weakness, non-fluent speech, impaired repetition and naming, but intact comprehension. Which area of the brain is likely affected in this case of Broca's aphasia?

726. Q51. Impaired immediate recall is associated with lesions of:

727. Q90. What is colpocephaly?

728. Which of the following is suggestive of a dominant parietal lobe lesion?

729. A patient presents with loss of sensation in the bilateral upper extremities, with later involvement of the lower extremities. What condition is most likely?

730. A female presents with decreased sensation to pinprick in bilateral upper limbs. What is the likely diagnosis?

731. How can one differentiate between conus medullaris syndrome and cauda equina syndrome?

732. A picture shows left tongue deviation and left Horner’s syndrome. What type of lesion is indicated?

733. In a long scenario of a patient with trigeminal neuralgia involving V1, which artery is likely causing vascular compression?

734. Localization of down-beating nystagmus is most commonly associated with which anatomical region?

735. Case about Gasterman syndrome (I did not remember the choices).

736. Syringomyelia (SCA) is commonly associated with which of the following?

737. What is the localization of postganglionic Horner's syndrome?

738. Which type of aphasia is similar to that seen in thalamic lesions?

739. Q83. A patient presents with Horner's syndrome and a left deviated uvula. What other finding would you expect?

740. Q259. Frontal operculum

741. Which imaging study is indicated in virtually all patients suspected of having glossopharyngeal neuralgia?

742. Q162. A patient presents with upper limb numbness and loss of pinprick sensation around the shoulder. The preserved position sense and weakness suggest which diagnosis?

743. An 18-year-old female presents with hearing loss and vision loss. What will you see on MRI?

744. Q238. A patient with headache, MRI showed a picture of Arnold Chiari malformation. What is the next step?

745. What is the localization of laryngeal spasms?

746. In a scenario of Broca's aphasia, where is the lesion typically located?

747. Q98. A 40-year-old man developed ankle dorsiflexion weakness, and sensation over the dorsum of the foot was decreased. What structure is most likely affected?

748. In a case of alexia without agraphia with a visual field defect, the lesion is located in:

749. Prosopagnosia localization is associated with which area of the brain?

750. Q281. What is the location of the olfactory gyrus?

751. In a case scenario about Weber's syndrome, where is the lesion located?

752. Which language disorder is associated with Gerstmann syndrome?

753. In the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN), visual information from the ipsilateral eye synapses in which layers?

754. In Wernicke’s Aphasia, the lesion is located in:

755. What is the characteristic feature of syringomyelia?

756. A patient presents with Broca’s aphasia. What is the localization of the affected area?

757. A 20-year-old female presented to the clinic with a history of progressive bilateral upper limb decrease in pain sensation, with no weakness. Examination was significant for decreased pinprick sensation bilaterally over the upper limbs. Motor and vibration sensation were intact. What is the most likely diagnosis?

758. Q87. What is the Schaffer collateral?

759. A young female presents with symptoms of bilateral lower limb weakness, loss of all sensory modalities up to the umbilicus, and bladder involvement. Where is the lesion?

760. Q84. A lesion of the facial nerve in the stylomastoid foramen leads to which of the following?

761. Q512. (Source: Promotion 2023mcqs.txt) Which of the following thalamic structures connects the optic tracts to the visual cortex?

762. Gerstmann syndrome is linked to which area of the brain?

763. A patient presents with a clear description of left fourth cranial nerve palsy and a head tilted to the right. Where is the lesion located in the brainstem?

764. A patient with headache, MRI showed a picture of Arnold Chiari malformation. What is the next step?

765. Q91. A patient came with Broca’s aphasia. What is the localization?

766. A patient presents with third nerve palsy and contralateral weakness. Where is the likely localization of the lesion?

767. Which of the following arteries arise from the internal carotid artery?

768. A patient presents with third nerve palsy and ipsilateral ataxia. Which of the following syndromes is most likely?

769. Q46. What is the nerve supply for shoulder adduction and internal rotation?

770. A patient presents with upper limb numbness, loss of pain sensation, and is burning her hands. What is the diagnosis?

771. Which muscle is supplied by the 12th cranial nerve?

772. Q51. Which structure is involved in vision and not in pupillary responses?

773. Q74. A patient presents with a visual field defect, impaired reading, and intact writing. This is a case of alexia without agraphia. What is the localization?

774. Which area of the brain is primarily associated with prosopagnosia?

775. A patient presents with classic trigeminal neuralgia characterized by paroxysmal lancinating facial pain triggered by light touch. Which artery is most commonly implicated in neurovascular compression causing trigeminal neuralgia?

776. Which of the following paired muscles is supplied by L5?

777. In a scenario about AICA syndrome, which artery is involved?

778. An elderly patient with quadriplegia presents with horizontal gaze palsy but has spared vertical gaze. What is the likely localization of the lesion?

779. Which condition is characterized by ipsilateral Horner's syndrome due to dorsal cerebellar SCA?

780. Q12. A patient with a CT scan showing a "molar tooth" appearance is suspected to have which condition?

781. One of the branches of the Internal Carotid Artery (ICA) is:

782. A patient presents with classic trigeminal neuralgia. Which artery is most commonly responsible for neurovascular compression of the trigeminal nerve?

783. A patient with C5–C6 radiculopathy. What muscle is involved?

784. Q63. What is the commonest presentation in Arnold-Chiari malformation?

785. A patient diagnosed with trigeminal neuralgia, what artery is the cause?

786. Where is prosopagnosia localized in the brain?

787. What are the signs of intracranial hypotension observed in brain MRI?

788. A patient with a history of posterior inferior cerebellar artery (PICA) infarction presents with vertical and torsional oscillation. Where is the lesion likely located?

789. An elderly man with a one-month history of right-sided weakness and confusion has a brain CT attached. What is the mechanism of this lesion (subdural hematoma)?

790. In a case of trigeminal neuralgia involving the V2 distribution with decreased sensation in V3, which artery is likely involved?

791. What is the most common artery to cause trigeminal neuralgia (TN)?

792. Where is the localization of internuclear ophthalmoplegia (INO)?

793. Q40. A lady presents with abnormal eye movements characterized by large amplitude and low frequency toward the right. What is the likely location of the lesion?

794. A patient with restricted vertical gaze and convergence nystagmus, with pupillary response to light intact, what is the localization?

795. Q24. In a scenario about Parinaud's syndrome, where is the lesion located?

796. What favors central nystagmus over peripheral nystagmus?

797. Q4. A patient with a history of PICA infarction two years ago presents with oscillopsia. Where is the lesion likely located?

798. A patient with Neuromyelitis Optica (NMO) presents with intractable vomiting. Which area of the brain is likely involved?

799. In a case of internuclear ophthalmoplegia (INO) with left impaired adduction and right abduction nystagmus, what is the localization?

800. A patient presents with right-sided ptosis and deviation of the uvula. Which of the following could be the underlying cause?

801. In a scenario of an elderly patient who had a stroke and became hyperactive with flight of ideas and pressured speech (mania), where would you expect the lesion to be located?

802. In a case of ocular bobbing (eyes fast downward then slowly return to primary position), which area of the brain is likely affected?

803. A patient presents with one-and-a-half syndrome (unable to move both eyes to the left and cannot adduct the left eye). What is the likely localization?

804. What brain structures are involved in peduncular hallucinosis?

805. Q82. A patient is diagnosed with a rostral vermis defect. What is a common clinical presentation associated with this condition?

806. A patient has impaired adduction of the right eye and nystagmus in the left eye when looking to the left. What is the likely localization of the lesion?

807. Pendular hallucination is associated with which type of lesion?

808. Q58. In a patient experiencing hallucinations, where is the lesion likely located?

809. Q111. What is the resulting lesion due to a lesion in the splenium of the corpus callosum?

810. A patient presented with nystagmus at primary gaze and a slow amplitude fast beat to the right. Which area is most likely affected?

811. Q68. In a case scenario of a patient with acute onset weakness and loss of pain and temperature sensation, sparing of vibration sense is noted. What is the likely diagnosis?

812. A CT brain scan shows right PICA territory infarction. What finding would you expect on examination?

813. A 73-year-old female patient presented with decreased level of consciousness showing hemorrhage with fluid level. What is the most likely diagnosis?

814. In a case scenario of a patient with left eye amaurosis fugax and transient dysarthria, what is your next step?

815. In the same case scenario [likely related to Q68, spinal cord infarction], what investigation should be performed?

816. A similar case presents with left frontal focal hyperintensity mainly subcortical, with cortical diffusion restriction on DWI/ADC. MRV shows transverse and superior sagittal filling defects. What is the likely diagnosis?

817. A patient presented with an inability to read his own handwriting, while his comprehension for spoken language, fluency, and repetition are normal. What is the most common artery involved?

818. For the same patient (referring to Q273, intracerebral hemorrhage with a fluid level on CT), what is the recommended treatment?

819. A patient two weeks postpartum presents with a headache and left-sided weakness. MRI shows a right cortical intracerebral hemorrhage with surrounding edema. What is the most likely cause?

820. A patient with a transient ischemic attack (TIA) is found to have atrial flutter, but the echocardiogram is normal. What is the recommended treatment?

821. An acute ischemic stroke (AIS) patient within the therapeutic window with a platelet count of 45,000 was given intravenous tPA, which resulted in intracranial hemorrhage. What violation of the AIS treatment protocol occurred?

822. A patient with Horner’s syndrome (ptosis, miosis) presents with a thunderclap headache. A CT brain and lumbar puncture were performed within 4 hours and were normal. What is the most likely diagnosis?

823. A patient presents with subarachnoid hemorrhage. Which artery is most likely affected?

824. An 83-year-old man presents with a 3-hour history of acute onset hemiparesis and aphasia consistent with ischemic stroke. What is the next best step in management?

825. Q24. A patient underwent carotid endarterectomy due to severe symptomatic stenosis and the next day he deteriorated. A brain CT shows right frontal cortical subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). What is the likely cause?

826. In a patient post motor vehicle accident (MVA) presenting with symptoms of lateral medullary syndrome, what is the likely mechanism of stroke?

827. Q40. Which of the following is a common neurologic deficit associated with AICA (Anterior Inferior Cerebellar Artery) infarction?

828. In a case of subacute stroke with a CT brain showing no abnormalities, a normal transthoracic echocardiogram (TTE), and a normal 48-hour Holter monitor, what is the next best step in management?

829. Q9. A patient presented with hemianopia and alexia without agraphia. What is the likely location of the lesion?

830. In a patient with CADASIL, what is the role of aspirin in secondary prevention?

831. A case scenario of a post-RTA patient presents with brain stem symptoms and findings. What is the most likely mechanism of injury?

832. A postpartum woman presents with a sudden, severe (“thunderclap”) headache and focal weakness two weeks after delivery. Noncontrast CT shows a small, convexal subarachnoid hemorrhage over the cerebral convexities. Cerebral angiography demonstrates multifocal segmental narrowing and dilation of medium-sized cerebral arteries that reverses on follow-up imaging. What is the most likely diagnosis?

833. A young lady with SLE nephritis on dialysis presents with seizures and confusion. MRI shows venous thrombosis in the transverse sinus. What is your diagnosis?

834. In a scenario of superior cerebellar artery (SCA) infarction, what additional finding would you expect?

835. A patient with Sickle Cell Anemia presents with symptoms of infarction and is found to have severe intracranial MCA stenosis. What would be the most appropriate management?

836. A young female postpartum presents with headache associated with new onset generalized tonic-clonic seizures. Her exam shows bilateral papilledema, and a CT was unremarkable. What is the best next step?

837. A patient with an acute stroke has a CT image with no established stroke ASPECT score of 8. After being treated with tPA, the patient vomits and becomes lethargic with a blood pressure of 180/110. What should be done next?

838. A patient with a stroke and fibromuscular dysplasia is being evaluated. What is the next step in management?

839. An MRI shows dissection. What is the recommended management?

840. A brain CT shows right SCA territory infarction at the level of the midbrain. Which artery is affected?

841. A male with progressive myelopathy has an attached image clearly showing slow voiding and long cord signal changes. What is the diagnosis?

842. Q296. What are the effects caused by SCA? [Referring to Superior Cerebellar Artery infarction]

843. What can you see with reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndrome (RCVS)?

844. In a patient with a hemorrhagic stroke, what is the recommended blood pressure target?

845. Q37. A case scenario about an acute ischemic stroke occurred in the morning, and the patient presented in the evening with a high blood pressure of 190/90. What should be done regarding his blood pressure?

846. Patient had mild trauma as he cannot see the left side of the road. Presented with visual deficit and reported a similar headache at age 15 years occurring for about 24 hours. What is your diagnosis?

847. A female patient taking oral contraceptive pills (OCP) had a cerebral venous thrombosis (CVT), and the thrombophilia workup was negative. For how long should she be on anticoagulation?

848. In a scenario of acute ischemic stroke, the patient was started on tPA. Thirty minutes later, he develops sudden headache, vomiting, and lethargy. What is the best next step?

849. A patient presents with transient lower extremity weakness that worsens upon coughing or during Valsalva maneuver. An MRI of the spine is attached. What is your diagnosis?

850. A patient with multiple hemorrhages in the brain was on aspirin; his lips showed petechiae (mucocutaneous telangiectasias). What should you do?

851. In a young female with a small PFO and atrial fibrillation who developed a stroke, what is the recommended treatment?

852. Locked-in syndrome is associated with infarction of which part of the brain?

853. What is the first cellular change in stroke?

854. In a case of posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome (PRES) with MRI findings, what is the underlying mechanism?

855. Q271. Which of the following is the correct mechanism of action of these medications?

856. A patient starts seeing animals and then has decreased level of consciousness and decerebrate posturing. A CT scan shows a hyperdense basilar sign. What is the next step in management?

857. A patient with polycystic kidney disease presents with a history suggestive of subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). What is the most likely cause?

858. In a scenario about CADASIL, which of the following is the correct answer? [Question context missing, but CADASIL is the focus]

859. In a scenario about Wernicke's aphasia, which artery is typically affected?

860. Q86. Exchange transfusion [Likely the answer to Q85 regarding Sickle Cell/MCA stenosis management]

861. A patient presented with acute-onset right face, arm, and leg weakness accompanied by mild articulation difficulties (dysarthria). Where is the most likely localization of his lesion?

862. A patient presents with Horner's syndrome and a left deviated uvula. What other finding would you expect?

863. Another patient came with a stroke; CT showed watershed infarction; what is the next step?

864. Which imaging technique is used to assess watershed infarction?

865. A 30-year-old male patient with a traumatic brain injury 5 days ago, intubated, and with respiratory settings within normal limits developed aphasia (features of vasospasm). What management, if given as prophylaxis, will improve or prevent further morbidity?

866. A patient with an acute ischemic stroke treated with tPA develops tongue angioedema and remains hemodynamically stable but severely dysarthric. What is the next step in management?

867. In a patient with an anterior communicating artery (A.Com) aneurysm, which of the following factors is most predictive of aneurysm rupture?

868. Stenting

869. A patient presents with a sudden, severe “thunderclap” headache. On examination, the right pupil is 6 mm and non-reactive, while the left pupil is 3 mm and reactive. Where is the lesion likely located?

870. A middle-aged male presents with right hemiplegia and is found to have atrial fibrillation. What is the recommended treatment?

871. A patient with sickle cell anemia is concerned about his risk of stroke due to a family history. What is the best method to predict the risk of stroke in this patient?

872. In the case of a 60-year-old male patient with a 3.5-hour history of sudden left-sided flaccid weakness, severe dysarthria, and facial weakness, who presented to the ER with a normal CT brain scan and later developed intracranial hemorrhage after receiving IV tPA, what is the protocol violation in community-based rTPA stroke treatment?

873. Q105. A 35-year-old patient with Moyamoya syndrome presents with a history of an ischemic stroke in the left MCA territory. Cerebral angiography confirms bilateral distal internal carotid artery stenosis with prominent basal collaterals. What is the best treatment to prevent future stroke?

874. A 54-year-old male, a known smoker, is admitted with stroke with right-sided weakness and facial asymmetry. Brain CT shows right capsular infarct. Brain CTA shows significant carotid artery stenosis. What is the best management?

875. A patient with a large left internal carotid artery (ICA) territory infarction, as shown in the CT image, was found to have atrial fibrillation. What is the appropriate treatment to start next?

876. A woman presented with acute left-sided weakness and dysarthria. A right intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) was found on CT. The patient's vital signs show a systolic blood pressure of 167. What is the most appropriate management?

877. A female patient with end‐stage renal disease (ESRD) on regular hemodialysis complains of recurrent TIAs lasting less than 10 minutes in the form of left‐sided weakness and dysarthria, which then resolved completely. These symptoms occur during the dialysis sessions. A CT brain showed evidence of old ischemic stroke, and a carotid ultrasound showed left ICA atherosclerotic changes with no visualized stenosis or occlusion. Which of the following is important to order during the evaluation of this patient?

878. A patient with subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) has hyponatremia; what will you do?

879. A 60-year-old male presents with chronic fluctuating paraparesis. Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?

880. An 82-year-old female with a stroke has an NIHSS score of 20, blood pressure of 180/100, and presents 3 hours from symptom onset. A brain CT shows no clear hypodensity but subtle early ischemic changes in the basal ganglia and insular ribbon. What should be done next?

881. Hemianopia refers to loss of half the visual field in both eyes on the same side, often due to lesions in the visual pathways. Which vascular territory stroke most commonly produces contralateral homonymous hemianopia?

882. Q242. What is the management for a patient with a history of ischemic stroke who is contraindicated for tPA?

883. Q235. In the scenario of a 65-year-old male with a history of diabetes and hypertension who presents to the ER with left-sided weakness lasting for 18 minutes, what is the 90-day risk of stroke?

884. A patient presented with weakness, and an MRI of the brain showed ischemic infarction in the superior cerebellar artery. What would be expected to be seen?

885. A 45-year-old female patient with hypertension and esophageal symptoms (suggesting systemic sclerosis) presented to the emergency department with severe headache and altered level of consciousness. Her blood pressure was 218/105 mmHg. What is the most likely diagnosis?

886. In a patient with a hemorrhagic stroke and an INR of 3.1, what is the recommended treatment?

887. A patient presents with stroke syndrome findings suggestive of lateral pons involvement and has a hearing problem. Which vascular lesion is most likely involved?

888. An elderly male presented to the ER with right-sided weakness and aphasia. Examination showed BP 220/120, HR in the 90s, and the patient was drowsy and aphasic with right-sided weakness. What is the next step in management?

889. In the context of carotid dissection, which statement is true regarding tongue deviation?

890. A 60-year-old patient came to the ER with left-sided weakness, decreased proprioception on the left, and right tongue weakness. What is the artery involved?

891. A patient presents with left MCA occlusion within 3.5 hours from symptom onset and has a history of ischemic stroke 2 months ago. What is the appropriate management?

892. In a scenario of acute stroke with a normal non-contrast CT scan, what is the next step if intravenous thrombolysis is not indicated?

893. Which neurologic deficit is most commonly associated with SCA (Superior Cerebellar Artery) infarction?

894. In a case of lateral pontine syndrome with a hint of hearing loss, which artery is most likely involved?

895. A patient presents with weakness, hemianesthesia, and tongue deviation. Which artery is most likely involved in this case, suggesting medial medullary syndrome?

896. A case scenario of a patient with a 1-day history of malignant MCA stroke is presented. The CT brain shows two-thirds hypodensity without midline shift or hydrocephalus. What is the next step in management?

897. A patient with CADASIL is being considered for prophylaxis against stroke. Which of the following is the most appropriate recommendation?

898. A patient experiences symptoms of a transient ischemic attack (TIA) for 10 minutes. Both echocardiogram and Holter monitor results are negative. What should be done next?

899. A patient with a small left internal capsule infarction and right-sided weakness for 2 days is found to have a patent foramen ovale (PFO) and uncontrolled hypertension. What is the recommended treatment?

900. What is the management for a patient who developed angioedema after starting tPA?

901. In a sickle cell patient with multiple previous strokes, what is the most important preventive treatment?

902. A young female presents with a case about cerebral venous thrombosis (CVT). What is a possible risk factor?

903. Q240. Why is tPA contraindicated in patients who have had a stroke within the last 3 months?

904. Q137. A 68-year-old man awoke with slurred speech and left-sided weakness. Noncontrast head CT shows an acute right hemispheric ischemic stroke. His blood pressure is 170/95 mm Hg. He is not a candidate for thrombolysis given unknown time of onset. What is the best next step for blood pressure control?

905. A 50-year-old developed progressive symptoms starting with sensory loss in the left lower limb, which then progressed to involve both lower limbs. The symptoms increase with standing, and the sensory level is at T10. MRI shows a T2-hyperintense long lesion in the conus with a hypodense rim on T1. What is the most likely diagnosis?

906. Q220. A patient with acute stroke on dabigatran for atrial fibrillation underwent thrombectomy and developed hemorrhage over the MCA territory. What should be administered?

907. A young male patient presents with third nerve palsy. What is the most likely diagnosis based on the attached image of a Pcom aneurysm?

908. A lady on oral contraceptive pills (OCP) presents with seizures and headaches, with a CT scan showing normal results. What is the next step in management?

909. Q30. A 74-year-old male presents with a CT brain image showing a large hemorrhage in the cortex. What is the next step in management?

910. A 36-year-old male sustained a motor vehicle accident and presented with acute blurred vision. Examination shows right homonymous hemianopia. His brain CT revealed left occipital acute infarction. What could explain the stroke mechanism in this case?

911. An elderly patient presents with temporal pain, jaw claudication, and visual symptoms, along with a high ESR. What is the next step in management?

912. A young lady with two miscarriages and livedo reticularis is being evaluated. What laboratory test should be ordered?

913. A 61-year-old female presented with sudden severe headache, worsened with double vision. Examination shows a 6 mm right pupil that is non-reactive to light. Which artery is likely affected?

914. What is the first-line treatment for warfarin-related intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) to achieve rapid reversal of coagulopathy?

915. A 70-year-old male patient with a patent foramen ovale (PFO), diabetes mellitus (DM), hypertension (HTN), and a history of lacunar stroke in the posterior limb of the internal capsule, with CTA showing extracranial atherosclerosis, what is the treatment?

916. A brain MRI shows unilateral watershed infarction. What is the likely mechanism?

917. A lady with a two-day history of malignant left middle cerebral artery (MCA) stroke and midline shift (CT was attached) was transferred from another hospital. What will you do for her?

918. For patients with intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) whose INR is elevated because of vitamin K antagonists (VKAs), what should be done?

919. Q244. An elderly patient presented to the ER with a history of visual disturbances. On examination, she has right homonymous hemianopia. She can write but is unable to read. A CT brain was performed. What is the location of the infarction?

920. A case of right ICA dissection presented with left-sided weakness. What is the treatment in the acute setting?

921. An 82-year-old female with a history of diabetes, hypertension, and dyslipidemia presents with sudden left gaze preference and aphasia. Her basic labs are fine. She has no contraindications for a brain CT. What is the time from symptom onset to ER arrival?

922. Q171. What is an expected finding in a patient with a superior cerebellar artery (SCA) infarction?

923. A patient presents with acute right-sided weakness. Noncontrast CT head demonstrates a left basal ganglia intracerebral hemorrhage with a 3 mm midline shift and no intraventricular extension. What is the most appropriate next step in management?

924. A scenario of an 82-year-old lady with ischemic stroke presented within 1 hour and has no contraindications. What is the appropriate treatment?

925. What is the mechanism of the following antiplatelet agent: Ticagrelor?

926. Q32. A patient presents with an intracranial bleed. What is the recommended blood pressure management?

927. A 64-year-old diabetic patient presents with unilateral weakness that lasted 25 minutes and then fully resolved. What medication regimen should be started?

928. A patient with an acute stroke in the left occipital lobe will exhibit which of the following in their visual fields?

929. A case scenario of a lady in the postpartum period presented with headache and seizure, with a normal brain CT. What should be done next? (No magnesium in the choices)

930. A case of malignant MCA stroke with mass effect and decreased level of consciousness is found unresponsive. What intervention will change outcomes?

931. Q98. An image of diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) shows a watershed infarction on one side. What should be done next?

932. In the context of acute ischemic stroke, which visual field defect is commonly observed?

933. A patient with cardioembolic stroke, ECG showed atrial fibrillation, and echocardiogram indicated nonvalvular cardiac disease. What should be given?

934. A patient presents with a small right thalamic hemorrhage and normal blood pressure. What is the next appropriate step in management?

935. In a case of intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH), what is the target blood pressure (BP) for treatment?

936. A patient was playing tennis and was brought to the emergency room after a car accident. Initially, he was fine and doing well. A CT brain scan and labs came back normal with a blood pressure of 160/95. Two hours later, he developed left homonymous hemianopia. He has a history of migraine since age 15, with recurrent episodes every 6 months. What is the most likely diagnosis?

937. A patient with acute stroke is on warfarin and has a CT scan showing intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) with an INR of 5. After receiving prothrombin complex concentrate, what additional treatment should be administered?

938. A stroke patient has livedo reticularis. What is the diagnosis?

939. A patient came with left side weakness; CT showed right semiovale hypodensity; what is the next step?

940. A patient with an acute stroke has a brain MRI that shows a dorsal cerebellar infarction (superior cerebellar artery). What will you find on examination?

941. In a case scenario of an acute ischemic stroke patient, what is a contraindication for administering tPA?

942. A case scenario of a patient with a history of diabetes mellitus and cardiac risk factors on aspirin presents with right hemiplegia and has left MCA stenosis. What is your next step?

943. A patient on warfarin developed acute focal weakness. A noncontrast CT brain scan shows an intracerebral hemorrhage with a distinct horizontal fluid–fluid level. What is the most likely underlying cause?

944. A stroke patient with an NIHSS score of 3. What is the treatment?

945. Q70. A patient diagnosed with acute ischemic stroke underwent workup, and her vessel imaging showed atherosclerotic disease; however, there was no critical stenosis. An echocardiogram is normal except for an ejection fraction of 55%. An 8-hour Holter monitor did not show any arrhythmia. What is the most likely mechanism of her stroke?

946. In a case about a young patient with malignant middle cerebral artery (MCA) stroke, what is the next step?

947. A patient presents with a picture showing a fluid level hemorrhage. What is the mechanism of this hemorrhage?

948. Q71. A man who developed acute vertigo and dysphagia along with left side ataxia on examination had the following finding (picture of uvula deviated to left). What is the most common finding?

949. In a case of stroke with intracranial stenosis, what is the recommended management?

950. Q146. What clinical features are seen in a patient with superior cerebellar artery infarction?

951. A lady in her 30s was presented to the ER with a history of headache and neck pain that started after her visit to the dentist. She has left-sided Horner syndrome and ataxia. MRI was done. Which of the following is the most appropriate management?

952. A brain MRI shows unilateral watershed infarction. What should be ordered?

953. The same patient is now asking what treatment you will give. What will you prescribe?

954. Q97. What are the CSF findings in RCVS?

955. A stroke patient presented within the treatment window with a normal brain CT and CTA. The NIHSS score is 16 and blood pressure is 200/140. What is the next step?

956. Foville Syndrome is characterized by lesions involving the dorsal pontine tegmentum in the caudal region. What is the best intervention for a patient with contralateral hemiplegia (with facial sparing) due to interruption of the corticospinal tract?

957. A 50-year-old patient, a heavy smoker and hypertensive on medication, presents with a history of left eye visual changes and dysarthria for 10 minutes, which then resolved. What is the next best step in management?

958. A case scenario of a patient who came with a left PICA territory infarction is presented. What is the next step in management?

959. Q91. A common question scenario about progressive symptoms of a spinal fistula with attached MRI for the spine includes which of the following?

960. A 50-year-old patient presents with transient right-sided weakness. The diagnosis is TIA, with right ICA stenosis of 60% and left ICA stenosis of 65%. What is the recommended treatment?

961. In a patient presenting with high blood pressure and headache, what is the most likely diagnosis based on the MRI findings?

962. A patient presents with a CT brain showing a unilateral occipital stroke. Which artery is most likely involved?

963. A 22-year-old female, medically free and on combined oral contraceptives, presents with headaches. A CT venography shows superior sagittal sinus (SSS) thrombosis. What is true regarding her condition?

964. A female who develops transverse sinus thrombosis: what is the most accurate statement to describe this patient?

965. Q127. (Source: Part I 2018mcqs.txt) Based on the MRI findings, what is your diagnosis?

966. A patient presents with tongue deviation to the left side and ptosis in his left upper eyelid. What is the artery involved?

967. A picture of an MRA shows a floating thrombus. What is the next step in management?

968. A 62-year-old male presented with acute onset nausea and vomiting. He is diabetic and hypertensive. Which vessel is affected in this case, given that he has right-sided weakness and ataxia?

969. A patient came with left side weakness; CT showed right semiovale hypodensity; what is the next step?

970. A patient presents with 6 hours of right-sided weakness affecting the arm, leg, and face, along with mild dysarthria. A brain CT shows an acute left internal capsule infarction. What is the next step in management?

971. In a scenario for giant cell arteritis (GCA), what is the most likely mechanism or artery involved?

972. In a case of an acute stroke, the patient exhibits left gaze preference and cannot look to the right. What other finding would you expect on examination?

973. Q88. A scenario of lateral medullary syndrome shows PICA involvement. What is the significance of the absence of vertebral artery in the options?

974. Q248. A 70-year-old female patient with a history of diabetes mellitus, hypertension, and a previous stroke 2 months ago presented with 3.5 hours of right side weakness, facial weakness, and dysarthria. Her NIHSS score was 8. She presented to the ER, where a CT and CTA of the brain were done. Her blood pressure was 172/60, and she was afebrile. What is the next best step in management?

975. In a case scenario of alexia without agraphia, what artery is involved?

976. A woman after a successful vaginal delivery complains of severe headache and hemiparesis. Her exam shows papilledema. What is the next step in management?

977. Q101. Which factors increase the risk for aneurysm formation?

978. Q148. In a long case scenario, a patient admitted to the stroke unit is diabetic, hypertensive, and dyslipidemic. Examination shows left-sided hemiparesis and MRI DWI is attached. What is the expected mechanism of his stroke?

979. In a case scenario, a patient initially has a high NIH Stroke Scale Score (NIHSS) that drops to 6 but still exhibits dysarthria and weakness. What is the next appropriate step in management?

980. A 50-year-old male patient with a history of diabetes mellitus, hypertension, and smoking presents with an acute stroke that occurred 3 days ago at home. What is the most likely artery involved?

981. Q160. (Source: Part II 2019mcqs.txt) Acute paraparesis after major repair of the aorta can be devastating. The sensory level is often found at which of the following?

982. A patient presents with a 1-day history of ischemic stroke and a high blood pressure (SBP 190). The CT brain reports an established stroke. What is the next step in management?

983. In a case of acute ischemic stroke presenting within the intravenous thrombolysis window with an NIHSS score of 3, what is the next step in management?

984. In a case scenario about Lateral Medullary Syndrome, what is the diagnosis?

985. Q125. A 70-something female with diabetes mellitus and hypertension, fully independent, presents with a 90-minute onset of dense right hemiparesis and aphasia. A CT brain scan performed 30 minutes after arrival shows no hemorrhage. As her symptoms slightly improved on the way to the ER, what should be done next?

986. Which of the following best describes the evidence for the use of decompressive craniectomy in the management of malignant edema following large hemispheric stroke?

987. A patient was not able to read his handwriting. Which artery is most likely involved in this condition?

988. Q44. A brain CT shows a large right subdural hematoma. What is the mechanism of this condition?

989. Q237. (Source: Promotion 2021mcqs.txt) An 80-year-old man with a history of diabetes and hypertension presents with a stroke within the treatment window. A CT scan shows good aspects and an old cortical insult. What is the next best step in management?

990. In a patient with acute stroke who was treated with tPA and subsequently vomited, leading to lethargy and a blood pressure of 180/110, what should be done next?

991. Q47. A patient came with a CT brain scan attached. Which artery is most likely involved in the case presented?

992. A patient with stroke is receiving physiotherapy and speech therapy. What is the type of prevention being implemented?

993. Q93. In the management of a transient ischemic attack (TIA), what is the recommended treatment?

994. A 59-year-old male with a history of diabetes, hypertension, and dyslipidemia presented with sudden dysarthria and right arm numbness lasting for 10 minutes. His brain CT is reported as normal. What is the best next step?

995. An elderly patient had an embolic stroke. What is the next step in management?

996. Q76. (Source: Part 2 2020 copymcqs.txt) What is the site of the lesion in Weber syndrome?

997. Q67. What is the recommendation for patients with ICH presenting with systolic blood pressure (SBP) between 150 and 220 mmHg?

998. A patient with an Acom aneurysm, what is the most important risk factor for rupture?

999. In a case of livedo reticularis and strokes in the MCA territory, what is the diagnosis to rule out a cardioembolic cause?

1000. In a scenario regarding cerebral venous thrombosis (CVT), what will confirm the diagnosis?

1001. Q221. A patient with acute ischemic stroke on dabigatran for atrial fibrillation underwent mechanical thrombectomy and subsequently developed hemorrhagic conversion over the MCA territory. What should be administered?

1002. An 82-year-old patient, medically free, presents with acute right-sided weakness and global aphasia for 3 hours. His blood pressure is 180/100 mmHg, and his CT scan shows no hemorrhage with good ASPECTS. What is your next step in management?

1003. A patient with perimesencephalic subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) has undergone two normal angiograms. What should be done next?

1004. Q184. A stroke patient presented within the treatment window with a glucose level of 300, platelet count of 45,000, and blood pressure of 170/90. What is the contraindication for administering IV tPA?

1005. Scenario of a patient with symptomatic ICA stenosis. He underwent carotid endarterectomy, and a few days later developed new onset confusion and decreased level of consciousness. An urgent brain CT is attached. What could explain his current condition?

1006. Which factors increase the risk for aneurysm rupture?

1007. This is a 24-year-old female patient with a known case of aneurysm, presenting with a history of right-sided headache and right pupil dilatation. On examination, the right pupil is dilated, with impaired right eye adduction. A CT brain scan showed a ruptured aneurysm. Where is the location of the aneurysm?

1008. A 42-year-old female was found unconscious. A noncontrast CT scan of the head demonstrates hyperdense blood predominantly in the basal cisterns and Sylvian fissures, without significant parenchymal hematoma or midline shift. Which of the following conditions could be responsible for her presentation?

1009. A man has right-sided weakness and dysphasia. On stroke workup, he was found to have severe stenosis of the left middle cerebral artery (MCA). What is the most appropriate management?

1010. Q19. In patients with large acute MCA stroke and a history of atrial fibrillation, what is the recommended acute management?

1011. Post aortic surgery, a patient is awake with flaccid paraparesis and a sensory level at which of the following?

1012. Q104. A stroke patient with an NIHSS score of 3 is being evaluated. What is the recommended treatment?

1013. A 62-year-old male patient with a history of diabetes mellitus for 12 years presented to the ER with a history of left side weakness that lasted for 10 minutes and then resolved. His blood pressure was 150/60. What is the risk of stroke in the next 90 days?

1014. A 65-year-old male with multiple cardiovascular risk factors and atrial fibrillation presents with a 1-day history of right-sided dense plegia and aphasia. His brain CT was attached. His clinical status remains unchanged. What is the best treatment option to consider?

1015. A female patient in her 30s presented to the ER with a history of progressive headache that started 10 days ago, associated with nausea, vomiting, and blurry vision. She is currently on oral contraceptive pills. Physical examination was remarkable for bilateral papilledema. CT brain and CTV were done. Which of the following is the appropriate management?

1016. A 70-year-old male presents with an MRI showing changes. Which of the following is a potential cause of his condition?

1017. What is a common cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) finding in reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndrome (RCVS)?

1018. A patient presents with infrequent headaches that are well controlled and has a family history of headaches. An MRI shows a deep cavernoma. What is the most appropriate management?

1019. Q77. A patient post-RTA has an image attached. Where is the localization of the lesion?

1020. A patient has had a stroke and presents with slurred speech. You refer him to a speech therapist and rehabilitation service. This is considered as:

1021. A female patient came with ischemic stroke, a history of two previous abortions, and elevated prothrombin time. What is the most helpful investigation in her case?

1022. A patient with a history of mild head trauma presents with left Horner’s syndrome and tongue deviation to the left. Which artery is involved?

1023. A case presents typical of Fabry disease with a picture of angiokeratoma and two strokes. What is the likely diagnosis?

1024. A 66-year-old male patient presented with dysarthria and right-sided weakness for 10 hours. A CT brain was done and showed acute ischemic change over the left internal capsule. Which of the following is the next step in the management?

1025. A 60-year-old male has sudden cognitive decline and repetitive questioning. His memory for recent events is affected, but he can remember past events. What is the best next step in management?

1026. A patient presented with acute limb weakness and dysarthria. A CT brain was performed and was normal. He was within the treatment window and IV t-PA was started. Twenty minutes later, the primary nurse called the physician as the patient had abnormal swelling around the mouth (image attached). Blood pressure was normal. Which of the following is the most likely associated risk factor for this condition?

1027. A patient presents with ataxia and vomiting. A CT scan shows hypodensity in the whole right cerebellum at the level of the midbrain. Which artery is likely involved?

1028. A female patient with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) on regular hemodialysis complained of recurrent TIAs lasting less than 10 minutes in the form of left-sided weakness and dysarthria that resolved completely. These symptoms occurred during the dialysis sessions. CT brain showed evidence of old ischemic stroke. Carotid ultrasound showed left ICA atherosclerotic changes with no visualized stenosis or occlusion. Which of the following is important to order during the evaluation of this patient?

1029. A 60-year-old female patient presents with left side weakness. Carotid Doppler shows right carotid stenosis of 50% and left carotid stenosis of 80%. What is the recommended management?

1030. A 52-year-old male presents with cognitive decline and unsteady gait. A brain MRI shows extensive subcortical white matter changes. What is the most likely diagnosis?

1031. In a patient with acute ischemic stroke presenting within the IV tPA treatment window, which of the following must be assessed immediately before administering thrombolysis?

1032. Q244. A patient presents with symptoms of vertigo and ataxia over 1 day. A CT scan shows left cerebellar hypodensity, midline shift, and crowding of the posterior fossa. What should be done next?

1033. A patient with asymptomatic extracranial internal carotid artery (ICA) 60% stenosis, what is the best treatment?

1034. A 75-year-old female with diabetes mellitus and hypertension presents with acute right-sided weakness. CTA angiography shows left ICA stenosis at 60% and right ICA stenosis at 65%. What is the next best step in management?

1035. A patient with medial medullary syndrome: which artery is affected?

1036. In the case of a cerebral venous thrombosis (CVT) after birth, what should be done?

1037. In a pregnant female patient with positive antiphospholipid antibodies who had a stroke and was found to have a small PFO, along with a prior history of DVT, what is the next best step?

1038. Q239. A patient presents with recurrent thunderclap headache. A CTA shows a "string of pearls" appearance and the ESR is normal. What is the most likely diagnosis?

1039. A hypertensive and diabetic patient who underwent surgery for a bone fracture developed a stroke. In a sickle cell anemia patient with two attacks of weakness one year apart, what is the most common provocative factor?

1040. A patient with acute stroke received tPA and then developed intracerebral hemorrhage. What should be given?

1041. A patient with a past medical history of stroke underwent a full cardiac workup that was negative. He was started on Aspirin, which worsened his chronic epistaxis. What is the next best step in management?

1042. In a patient with a stroke, what is the most appropriate management option?

1043. In a patient with sickle cell disease, what intervention is known to decrease the risk of future strokes?

1044. After 5 hours of labor, a patient on SSRIs presents with depression. What is the likely CT finding and angiography result?

1045. What is the mechanism of stroke in arterial dissection?

1046. Admission to stroke unit

1047. In a case of acute ischemic stroke, the blood pressure is 193/103 mmHg. What should be done next?

1048. A stroke patient presents with livedo reticularis. What is the diagnosis?

1049. A clear picture suggests perimesencephalic SAH. What is the most likely diagnosis?

1050. A patient presents with an aneurysm rupture of the posterior communicating artery (Pcom). What will you do?

1051. In the ECST trial, what was the estimated 3-year stroke or death rate for patients who underwent carotid endarterectomy (CEA)?

1052. A 60-year-old male patient with diabetes and hypertension came with a history of transient ischemic attack (TIA) lasting 10 minutes, with numbness and dysarthria. The NIHSS score is 3. On examination, he still has numbness. What will you give?

1053. A 36-year-old female is referred to a neurology clinic with complaints of forgetfulness. She has chronic migraine headaches and has a family history of stroke. Her father died at 49 years of age with dementia. Brain MRI shows subcortical white matter changes and lacunes. What is the diagnosis?

1054. A patient with sickle cell disease comes with a stroke workup done and is found to have multiple stenoses in the anterior cerebral artery (AcA) and middle cerebral artery (McA). What is the method of prevention?

1055. An 82-year-old male patient came within 3 hours and has no contraindication for tPA. A CT scan shows early signs of stroke, but infarction is not established. What will you give?

1056. Angioplasty

1057. Which one is correct about antithrombotic medications?

1058. A left ICA deep borderzone infarction is shown on DWI. What test would reveal the etiology?

1059. Based on the following imaging, which territory is involved?

1060. Q446. A young female with right ICA dissection shows a crescent shape on MRA. What is the treatment?

1061. A 63-year-old male has acute bilateral lower limb weakness, lower back pain, and urinary incontinence. Examination shows dense paraplegia with preserved proprioception. What is the likely diagnosis?

1062. A patient with a minor stroke (NIHSS 3) presents with decreased sensation on the left side and mild facial weakness. Within the treatment window, what is the next step?

1063. A patient with an intracranial bleed is being assessed for blood pressure management. What is the recommended blood pressure?

1064. A patient with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) presents with a right superficial borderzone infarction in the MCA/ACA territory. What is the next investigation?

1065. Q266. What is the artery involved in a case of unconsciousness with CT brain findings?

1066. An 82-year-old woman presents with an acute ischemic stroke (onset 2 hours ago) and shows partial improvement of her deficit. What is the recommended treatment?

1067. After all stroke workups are completed except for CTA, what is the next step?

1068. Endarterectomy

1069. A male patient developed weakness and ptosis. A CTA image is attached. What is the most likely diagnosis?

1070. A young male with internal carotid artery (ICA) occlusion is presented in a vessel image after a motor vehicle accident (MVA) with ischemic infarctions. What is the most likely cause of the occlusion?

1071. What is the direction of gaze deviation in a patient with hemispheric stroke?

1072. A 70-year-old female with diabetes and hypertension, who had an ischemic stroke 2 months ago, presents 3.5 hours after new-onset right-sided weakness, facial droop, and dysarthria. NIHSS is 8. What is the appropriate management?

1073. A 45-year-old female presents with a sudden, severe headache, neck stiffness, and photophobia. A head CT confirms subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH), and subsequent cerebral angiography identifies a 6 mm posterior communicating artery aneurysm. What is the next appropriate step in management?

1074. What is the mechanism of the patient's condition?

1075. Q317. Stent

1076. A 60-year-old patient comes to the ER with left-sided weakness, decreased proprioception on the left, and right tongue weakness. What artery is involved?

1077. Q257. A 70-year-old male presents with a history of progressive lower limb weakness for months, associated with examination findings of spastic paraparesis. An MRI of the spine shows flow void. What is the most likely diagnosis?

1078. Q284. A young patient presents with left hemiparesis and confusion. Imaging shows multiple FLAIR DWI hyperintensities not following vascular territory, raising suspicion for MELAS. On admission, the patient's condition worsens. What should be ordered next?

1079. What is the mechanism of injury in a patient who presented unconscious with a brain CT showing:

1080. What is the mechanism of the patient's condition?

1081. Q391. Requires identification and classification of the type of intracranial hemorrhage based on CT imaging.

1082. A patient with severe stenosis of the intracranial MCA is being evaluated. What is the next step in management?

1083. What is the direction of gaze deviation in a patient with pontine stroke?

1084. An elderly female presents with sudden onset persistent left gaze preference that cannot be overcome. Which of the following findings is most likely on her neurologic examination?

1085. What is the mechanism of injury in a patient who presented unconscious with a brain CT showing a deep hyperdense hemorrhage in the basal ganglia consistent with spontaneous intracerebral bleeding?

1086. Q169. A 45-year-old lady has sudden onset headache following neck manipulation, with right-sided weakness. She has no other symptoms and no vascular risk factors. Attached imaging shows findings of which artery likely dissected?

1087. A patient developed an embolic stroke, and his routine workup is unremarkable. What should be done next?

1088. Q209. In a case of intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) with midline shift greater than 10 mm and clinical deterioration, what is the recommended intervention?

1089. A patient has recurrent headaches and transient ischemic attacks (TIAs). Cerebral angiography shows segmental vessel constriction. What is the most likely diagnosis?

1090. A patient has a right pontine stroke, his NIHSS was 8 and he was on aspirin prior to stroke onset. What is the best option to prevent recurrence of stroke?

1091. Based on the following brain CT findings, what is the most likely diagnosis?

1092. A female who just had an uneventful vaginal delivery one week ago presents with seizure and severe headache. Her vital signs are within normal limits, she is afebrile, and her blood electrolytes and renal function are normal. What will you do next?

1093. A 70-year-old male came with an acute stroke and was given tPA in the ER. After 6 hours, he was assessed and showed no change in vital signs, with a BP of 190/90. The patient appears anxious. What should be done next?

1094. Q393. (Source: Part II 2022mcqs.txt) A patient suddenly explained to his wife that he is seeing animals and then fades away. After a while, the patient loses consciousness. Upon arrival, the emergency medical team intubates him and a CT scan shows a new left occipital stroke. What will you do?

1095. A patient with a history of acute subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) and CT angiography showing a posterior communicating aneurysm is being evaluated. What is the next best step in management?

1096. Q127. The ACAS trial showed a reduction in the 5-year incidence of ipsilateral stroke or periprocedural stroke or death for which degree of ICA stenosis?

1097. A young female developed severe headache and photophobia post-partum. What is the most appropriate next step in management?

1098. In a patient with transient ischemic attack (TIA) and severe internal carotid artery (ICA) stenosis on the symptomatic side, what is the recommended management?

1099. In patients with blood pressure of 220/120 mmHg who did not receive IV alteplase or mechanical thrombectomy, what is the recommendation regarding the treatment of hypertension within the first 48 to 72 hours?

1100. A picture of a spine MRI for a patient with progressive myelopathy is presented. What is the likely diagnosis?

1101. In patients with sickle cell disease and a history of ischemic stroke or TIA, what is the recommended approach to prevent recurrent strokes?

1102. A pregnant lady had a headache, and her CT showed an intracranial hemorrhage (ICH). What is the treatment?

1103. A 62-year-old male patient with a history of diabetes mellitus presents to the ER with a left-sided weakness that lasted for 10 minutes and then resolved. His blood pressure is 150/60. What is the risk of stroke in the next 90 days?

1104. A patient developed ischemic stroke, and his echocardiogram showed a valvular hypokinesia lesion. How should this patient be treated?

1105. An MRI shows dissection. What is the recommended management?

1106. A patient with hypertension and diabetes mellitus, with a history of CABG, presents with bilateral lower limb slowing and parkinsonism. MRI shows leukoaraiosis and hydrocephalus ex vacuo. What should you do?

1107. In a scenario with a picture of an arteriovenous malformation (AVM), which of the following is a risk factor for bleeding?

1108. A patient with hypertension and diabetes mellitus, with a history of CABG, presents with bilateral lower limb slowing and parkinsonism. MRI shows leukoaraiosis and hydrocephalus ex vacuo. What should you do?

1109. A patient presents with right‐sided weakness; a noncontrast CT scan shows a left basal ganglia intraparenchymal hemorrhage with a 3 mm midline shift. What should you do?

1110. Q55. A patient with an anterior communicating artery aneurysm, what is the most important risk factor for rupture?

1111. An elderly man with diabetes mellitus, hypertension, and a history of coronary artery bypass grafting presents with progressive dementia over 6 months and falls. On examination, he has Parkinson’s signs in the distal lower limb and limited vertical gaze. An MRI shows ischemic changes. What is the diagnosis?

1112. Another patient presented with acute stroke; noncontrast CT showed watershed infarction; what is the next step in diagnostic workup?

1113. An elderly man with diabetes mellitus, hypertension, and a history of coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) presents with progressive dementia over 6 months and falls. On examination, he had Parkinson’s signs in the distal lower limb and limited vertical gaze. MRI showed ischemic changes. What’s the diagnosis?

1114. A patient with multiple hemorrhages in the brain was on aspirin; his lips showed petechiae. What should you do?

1115. A patient presents with Parkinsonism restricted to the lower limbs with slowing and no tremor, responding to L-Dopa. What is the most likely diagnosis?

1116. A patient with stroke and fibromuscular dysplasia is being evaluated. What is the next step in management?

1117. A patient presents with left side weakness, and an MRI shows a right lacunar stroke. A CTA reveals severe intracranial right MCA stenosis. What is the appropriate management?

1118. A patient presented with acute limb weakness and dysarthria. A CT brain was performed and was normal. He was within the treatment window and IV t-PA was started. Twenty minutes later, the primary nurse called the physician as the patient had abnormal swelling around the mouth (image attached). Blood pressure was normal. Which of the following is the appropriate next step?

1119. A 60-year-old male presented to the ER with a 2-day history of unilateral weakness and dysarthria. On examination, blood pressure was 170/90 mm Hg and heart rate in the 80s. What is the next step in management?

1120. A female patient presented with an ischemic stroke, a history of two previous abortions, and elevated prothrombin time. What should be investigated?

1121. Q214. An elderly patient with a history of diabetes mellitus, hypertension, and end-stage renal disease (ESRD) presents with decreased level of consciousness. His wife reports he was seeing animals prior to the deterioration. A CT scan shows left occipital hypodensity. What will you do?

1122. A 30-year-old healthy woman presented with a 10-day history of severe headache, blurred vision, and new onset symptomatic seizure. Neurological examination was unremarkable. Vital signs were stable. A CT brain was performed (image attached). Which of the following is the best diagnostic test?

1123. A woman being investigated for stroke was found to have a high titer of anti-beta II glycoprotein antibodies and anticardiolipin antibodies and was diagnosed with antiphospholipid syndrome. She has a history of a prior left lower deep vein thrombosis (DVT), and a small patent foramen ovale (PFO) was also found. What is the appropriate management?

1124. A patient who underwent carotid stenting or endarterectomy presents with altered level of consciousness and a CT shows a small right frontal cortical hemorrhage. What condition is most likely?

1125. What is the mainstay of treatment for patients with elevated INR due to vitamin K antagonists (VKAs) in the United States?

1126. An elderly male in his 60s with hypertension and diabetes mellitus presented with sudden onset right-sided weakness. Symptoms started 5 hours ago. BP was 180/100, HR 83. Examination showed aphasia with left gaze preference. NIHSS was 16. CT brain was done. Which of the following is the appropriate management for this patient?

1127. Which vitamin is known to decrease the risk of stroke in patients with homocysteinemia?

1128. Which of the following statements about spinal dural arteriovenous fistula is true?

1129. A 70-year-old male, known case of hypertension, went to sleep and then woke up in the morning with left-sided weakness and dysarthria. MRI of the brain was done. What is the most likely pathophysiology involved in his condition?

1130. Q332. What is the diagnosis for a 40-year-old female, medically free, with a previous history of two miscarriages, presenting with left side weakness, normal CBC, normal INR, normal chemistry, elevated ESR, and positive ANA?

1131. Q193. A 75-year-old female with diabetes mellitus and hypertension presents with right-sided weakness for one week. MRI shows a left internal capsule lacunar infarction, and vascular workup reveals right ICA 55% stenosis and left ICA 65% stenosis. What should be done for her regarding stroke prevention?

1132. A young female patient with subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) and a symptomatic posterior communicating artery (PComm) aneurysm presents for management. What is the next step in her treatment?

1133. A 50-year-old male presents with progressive lower limb weakness and a sensory level up to T10. There is no upper limb involvement. MRI of the spine shows thoracic and conus hyperintensity surrounded by a hypointense rim. The neurological examination reveals upgoing plantar responses and absent reflexes in the lower limbs. What is the most likely diagnosis?

1134. An elderly patient with confusion, seizure, and weakness was brought to the emergency department. MRI of the brain showed multiple cortical microhemorrhages. What is the diagnosis?

1135. What is the first-line treatment for Reversible Cerebral Vasoconstriction Syndrome (RCVS)?

1136. Homonymous hemianopia is most commonly associated with which artery?

1137. A patient with systemic lupus erythematosus and known antiphospholipid syndrome presents two days after an ischemic stroke. Which of the following is the most appropriate long-term antithrombotic therapy?

1138. In a patient with subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) and normal CTA and attached CT, what is the recommended management?

1139. What is the diagnosis for a 40-year-old female, medically free, with a previous history of two miscarriages, presenting with left side weakness, normal CBC, normal INR, normal chemistry, elevated ESR, and positive ANA?

1140. MRI diffusion-weighted imaging shows multiple acute infarctions confined to one cerebral hemisphere. What is the next step in management?

1141. In the context of intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH), which statement is correct?

1142. Q56. A patient with SLE and antiphospholipid syndrome presented with a stroke 2 days ago. What should be administered?

1143. A 30-year-old female presents with an 18-month history of back pain, progressive lower-limb weakness, numbness, and sphincter dysfunction. On examination there is a sensory level at T10, upgoing plantar responses, and absent ankle reflexes. MRI of the thoracic spine shows a long segment of T2 hyperintensity in the central cord with a hypointense central “flow‐void” region. What is the most likely diagnosis?

1144. Which cranial nerve is primarily responsible for the sense of smell?

1145. A 45-year-old patient with a history of migraine 15 years ago developed a TIA. His father has a history of stroke. MRI involving the anterior temporal lobe was performed. What is the next best step in management?

1146. Based on the following brain MRI, what is the most likely mechanism of injury?

1147. Q95. The risk of stroke increases with which of the following conditions?

1148. A girl with a history of migraine headaches, stroke, and dementia, along with a family history of similar issues in her father presents for evaluation. What is your diagnosis?

1149. A patient with recurrent epistaxis and telangiectasia over the skin, mucous membranes, retina, and gastrointestinal tract is suspected to have hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia. What is the next best step in management?

1150. A male patient with renal impairment, stroke, and angiokeratoma is being evaluated for enzyme supplementation. Which enzyme is likely deficient?

1151. A young female with a history of stroke and recurrent abortions is evaluated. Which of the following is the most likely underlying condition?

1152. In the same scenario as the previous question, but with a CT angiogram not attached, what is the best treatment to achieve full recanalization in an acute large vessel occlusion stroke?

1153. A 4-year-old sickle cell disease patient had a stroke with significant MCA stenosis. What will determine the stroke risk?

1154. What is a new recommendation for adults with acute ischemic stroke who have known sickle cell disease?

1155. A 20-year-old male with a history of learning difficulty presented to the clinic with his father due to repeated history of stroke-like symptoms, dysarthria, and hearing loss. MRI of the brain was done. What is the most likely diagnosis?

1156. What was the aggregate risk reduction of stroke at 10 years for patients with 70% to 99% ICA stenosis undergoing carotid endarterectomy (CEA) according to the ACST trial?

1157. In a case of malignant MCA infarction presented after 24 hours with midline shift, what is the most important intervention?

1158. A patient with sickle cell disease developed an ischemic stroke. What is the recommended secondary prevention strategy?

1159. A patient developed an ischemic stroke, and his echocardiogram showed an intracardiac thrombus as part of the stroke workup. What is the best option for secondary prevention of stroke?

1160. Q8. A patient presents with a skin rash (Angiokeratomas) and a family history of stroke. What is the gene associated with this condition?

1161. A case scenario of a patient with CADASIL presents with stroke, dementia, and migraine. What is the best way to diagnose this condition?

1162. A patient with cardioembolic stroke, ECG showed atrial fibrillation, and echocardiogram indicated nonvalvular cardiac disease. What should be given?

1163. In a patient presenting with headache, what is the most likely diagnosis based on the MRI findings?

1164. According to the NASCET trial, what was the reduction in stroke rate at 18 months for patients with 70% to 99% ICA stenosis who underwent carotid endarterectomy (CEA) compared to best medical treatment?

1165. In a patient with ischemic stroke, imaging shows bilateral anterior and posterior circulation strokes. What is the best step for management of this patient if transthoracic echocardiogram (TTE) and transesophageal echocardiogram (TEE) were negative?

1166. Q28. A patient presented with a chronic headache and no other neurological symptoms, found to have a 3 mm unruptured aneurysm. What is the recommended management?

1167. A patient presents with a headache and recurrent thunderclap headaches, with normal MRI and MRV. What is the likely diagnosis?

1168. A 4-year-old sickle cell disease patient had a stroke with significant MCA stenosis. What will determine the stroke risk?

1169. A patient had head trauma and developed spontaneous perimesencephalic subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) 10 days later. After two digital subtraction imaging studies two weeks apart, which were unremarkable, what is the appropriate management?

1170. A patient who underwent revascularization for severe external carotid stenosis is found confused one day later. A CT brain scan is attached. What is the mechanism behind this confusion?

1171. Q15. A 30-year-old male presents to the emergency room with a coital headache (very severe). The headache has improved but only slightly. What is the next step in management?

1172. An 82-year-old female with good functional status, although she has mild osteoporosis in her knees related to her age, presents with an NIHSS score of 20, exhibiting aphasia and right side weakness. She presented within 60 minutes, and a CT was done within 30 minutes. With a blood pressure of 220/110, what is the next step in management?

1173. A 73-year-old female patient presented with decreased level of consciousness showing hemorrhage with fluid level. What is the most likely diagnosis?

1174. A young patient presented with acute severe headache associated with nausea and vomiting. He was recently diagnosed with depression and started on escitalopram. Neurological examination was unremarkable. Cerebral angiography was done. Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?

1175. In a scenario about cavernous sinus thrombosis, what imaging study is recommended?

1176. An IV drug user presented with an acute stroke within 2 hours. A noncontrast head CT (showing no hemorrhage) was performed. The patient was febrile and had a pansystolic murmur. What is the most appropriate treatment?

1177. A patient presents with a history of vertigo and nausea. Diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) showed abnormalities. Which of the following findings might be observed?

1178. A patient presents with third nerve palsy, tremor, and hearing loss. Which artery is likely involved?

1179. A patient with visual defect, what is the artery involved?

1180. A middle-aged patient presented with sudden severe headache associated with blurred vision. On examination, she has right eye ptosis with decreased visual acuity bilaterally, right eye pupil 6 mm in diameter and left eye pupil 3 mm in diameter, both reactive to light. What is the most likely diagnosis?

1181. A patient with a left middle cerebral artery (MCA) aneurysm underwent clipping and subsequently experienced loss of vision in the left eye. Fundoscopy showed no obvious retinal or optic disc abnormalities, and there was mild hemorrhage. Where is the likely localization of the issue?

1182. In a scenario resembling cavernous sinus thrombosis but without proptosis, what is the likely diagnosis?

1183. In a patient with Moyamoya disease presenting with right‐sided weakness and CTA showing severe stenosis in the left MCA, what is the next best step in management?

1184. A 63-year-old male has acute bilateral lower limb weakness, lower back pain, and urinary incontinence. Examination shows dense paraplegia with preserved proprioception. What is the likely diagnosis?

1185. Based on the following visual field defect in picture B, which artery is involved?

1186. A patient presented to the ER with vertigo and vomiting. What is the feature that can differentiate peripheral from central causes of vertigo?

1187. Q246. A patient with benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV), what is the management?

1188. A 45-year-old female presented with visual blurring and is diagnosed with Brun’s nystagmus. The large-amplitude nystagmus is caused by compression of which structure?

1189. Q99. A patient has vertical and torsional nystagmus. What is the localization?

1190. A young patient is complaining of hearing impairment. She has ataxia, dizziness, and nystagmus. Her sister has dizziness and depression, and the head impulse test is normal. What is the most likely diagnosis?

1191. In a case of central vertigo, which of the following is true?

1192. What supports central nystagmus rather than peripheral nystagmus?

1193. Central nystagmus vs peripheral nystagmus will exhibit which of the following characteristics?

1194. Which of the following structures is most likely to be abnormal on VRE in a patient with oscillopsia?

1195. A patient in a nursing home informs you that he has been physically abused. What should you do?

1196. A patient refuses admission and refuses to sign a Leave Against Medical Advice (LAMA). What is the appropriate action?

1197. An intern wants to perform a procedure that he knows about but has never done before, and the supervisor is not present. What should he do?

1198. Q86. What is the definition of euthanasia?

1199. In a scenario involving a female patient with hematologic metastasis, what is the most likely skin-related diagnosis?

1200. To act in the best interest of the patient is an example of which ethical principle?

1201. A group of doctors conducted research, and after finishing, the chairman’s friend asked to add the chairman’s name. He might report the names of those who refused to the chairman. What is the most appropriate action?

1202. A patient diagnosed with a serious disease has no family members. How should you break the bad news?

1203. Which enzyme is the rate-limiting step in catecholamine synthesis?

1204. EEG showed diffuse slowing in:

1205. In regards to patient safety and preventing medical errors, which research methodology is the best?

1206. A pharmacy company that conducted a clinical trial for a new antiepileptic drug (AED) asks you to give a presentation and offers sponsorship for international flights and conferences. What should you do?

1207. You have a language barrier with an ER staff member. What is the best way to communicate?

1208. What is the definition of informed consent?

1209. Topiramate

1210. Which of the following is the most sensitive test?

1211. What is the definition of euthanasia?

1212. A nurse got a needle stick in her finger after blood extraction from a patient. She refuses to report it to infection control because the patient looks fine. What should be done?

1213. In the same scenario, what is the most appropriate treatment?

1214. According to resource allocation, when building a children's hospital, which statement regarding the location is correct?

1215. Felbamate

1216. Medical therapy

1217. A pharmaceutical company conducting a clinical trial for a new AED offers to sponsor your presentation at international conferences. What should you do?

1218. MTL

1219. Carbamazepine

1220. Thiamine

1221. Ethosuximide

1222. What is the mechanism?

1223. Taking one medication

1224. Q503. CK level

1225. The same patient is asking what treatment you will give. What will you choose?

1226. 3.

1227. Q269. MRI/MRV

1228. In the case of the patient mentioned above, what is the next step in management?

1229. The same patient is asking about the treatment options. What is the treatment?

1230. In the same scenario, what is the most important and useful way for investigation?

1231. In a scenario with a different presentation, what is the most likely diagnosis?

1232. tPA

1233. Which of the following is associated with apoptosis?

1234. Same scenario as above. What should be done next?

1235. In the same scenario, if the patient came to the emergency room, what is the treatment?

1236. A patient presents with hyperreflexia and headache, and brain MRI reveals multiple diffuse enhancing lesions. What is the most appropriate next step in management?

1237. Endarterectomy

1238. After all stroke workups are completed except for CTA, what is the next step?

1239. What EEG finding is associated with non-convulsive status epilepticus (NCSE)?

1240. A patient diagnosed with ALS, his son asks you not to tell his father about the diagnosis. What should you do?

1241. Q311. What is the mechanism of the patient's condition?

1242. A female patient with weight gain presents with carpal tunnel syndrome on the left side and had delayed reflexes. What is the next step in management?

1243. Q156. (Source: Part I 2018mcqs.txt) AMAN scenario.

1244. Ipsilateral nose wiping

1245. Q44. The same patient is asking about the associated antibody. Which antibody is most likely present?

1246. Which of the following statements about glucose is correct?

1247. Q159. Levodopa

1248. Q494. Chronic Progressive External Ophthalmoplegia (CPEO plus) is best classified as which of the following?

1249. Q305. (Source: Part II 2022mcqs.txt) Figure of 4 left limb extension Which of the following neurological conditions is most likely associated with a "Figure of 4" posture in the left limb extension?

1250. Q31. In a patient with Progressive Supranuclear Palsy (PSP), what is the most likely diagnosis?

1251. In the same scenario, what is the next step in management?

1252. An elderly patient with poor oral intake has a one-week history of ongoing infection. What is the most likely cause?

1253. Q304. Dorsolateral

1254. Q52. What is the recommendation for NSAID use in the 3rd trimester of pregnancy?

1255. A nurse with multiple sclerosis comes for a follow-up. She is about to get married to a doctor’s friend and asks the doctor not to disclose her disease. What should the doctor do?

1256. In the management of spasticity and weakness due to baclofen, which of the following should be tried next?

1257. Q58. A group of doctors completed research, and the chairman’s friend asked to add the chairman’s name to the publication. What is the most appropriate action?

1258. In a comatose patient with fever and retinal redness/orange with vascular changes, what is the cause?

1259. A patient with impaired decision-making capacity wishes to discharge home because he feels better. What should be done?

1260. A 76-year-old gentleman with Parkinson’s disease has been maintained on his medications with good motor response. Over the last year, he has developed asymmetrical tremors with rigidity. Which of the following findings is most likely on MRI?

1261. Hemianesthesia is best described as:

1262. Lamictal

1263. Difficulty in the pronunciation of words is referred to as:

1264. A drug company is providing a new drug similar to an already existing one with the same usages and side effects but at a higher cost. They offered to give you 10% of the money. What should your action be?

1265. A patient presents with dysarthria and dysphagia. What do you expect to find on this patient?

1266. Q358. A patient presents with hyperreflexia and headache, and an MRI shows diffuse lesions. What is the next step in management?

1267. After receiving methylprednisolone, how long should a woman wait before nursing to minimize risks?

1268. Q3. Mental retardation

1269. A 19-year-old female patient came with encephalopathy; MRI showed high signal intensity in the basal ganglia and thalamus; what is the next step?

1270. A young male presents with progressive external ophthalmoplegia. What is the likely diagnosis?

1271. A case scenario presents a patient with a CT brain scan showing multiple brain calcifications. What is the most likely diagnosis?

1272. Q73. A nurse got a needle stick in her finger after blood extraction from a patient. She refuses to report it to infection control because the patient looks fine. What should you do?

1273. Q105. Propranolol

1274. Q261. Valproate is primarily used in the treatment of which of the following conditions?

1275. Q69. (Source: Part 2 2020 copymcqs.txt) Aspirin (ASA) is commonly used in neurology for which of the following purposes?

1276. Propranolol

1277. In the same scenario as above, what is the next step in management?

1278. Q83. Weakness is a common neurological symptom. Which of the following is the most likely cause of acute unilateral weakness?

1279. Carbamazepine

1280. Dual antiplatelet therapy (DAPT) is primarily used in which of the following clinical scenarios?

1281. Anomia is best described as which of the following?

1282. Keppra

1283. A multiple sclerosis (MS) patient who is receiving natalizumab developed progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML). What should be done next? (Stopping natalizumab was not an option in the choices)

1284. A multiple sclerosis (MS) patient who is receiving natalizumab and developed progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML), what should be done?

1285. A female known to have relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS) is stopping disease-modifying therapy (DMT) for 2 months in order to get pregnant. What medication was she likely started on?

1286. A 16-year-old patient presents with confusion. An MRI shows bilateral white matter changes. What is the likely diagnosis?

1287. A patient diagnosed with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS) started on disease-modifying therapy (DMT) but lost follow-up. Upon return, the patient had a platelet count of 30 × 10^9/L and petechial skin lesions. Which DMT was the patient on?

1288. What is the cardinal feature in a case scenario suggestive of Neuromyelitis Optica (NMO)?

1289. Q67. In a case of multiple sclerosis, the criteria for diagnosis were questioned due to the presence of enhancing and non-enhancing lesions, but only two periventricular lesions were noted. Which of the following statements is true?

1290. Q72. MRI findings in patients with NMOSD typically show which of the following?

1291. The most common cause of myelopathy in young adults in temperate zones is:

1292. In a patient with bilateral optic neuritis and longitudinally extensive transverse myelitis (LETM), which tests are used to confirm the diagnosis?

1293. A young female presents with a new relapse of sudden left-sided weakness for 5 days after a history of exhaustion. What is the most appropriate management?

1294. A patient with multiple sclerosis (MS) who was on disease-modifying therapy (DMT) stopped her medication 2 months ago because she wants to get pregnant. An MRI of the brain shows new white matter subcortical enhancing lesions. What is the mechanism of these lesions?

1295. In the scenario of a patient with Giant Cell Arteritis (GCA), which vessel is most commonly involved?

1296. A case scenario describes a patient with recurrent oral ulcers presenting with neurological deficits. What is the likely diagnosis?

1297. Which of the following is considered a red flag for Multiple Sclerosis (or demyelinating disease)?

1298. In a patient with Multiple Sclerosis, what finding is expected on Visual Evoked Potentials (VEP)?

1299. Patient was diagnosed with Multiple Sclerosis and suffers from lower limb tonic spasm. What is the treatment?

1300. Which of the following is suggestive of Multiple Sclerosis, but not vascular white matter disease?

1301. A patient known to have Neuromyelitis Optica (NMO) after a long episode of cervical myelitis reported experiencing pain in her upper limbs triggered by sudden movement. What is the best treatment?

1302. What is the risk of developing clinically definite MS (CDMS) in patients with no MRI lesions after 5 years?

1303. A patient with multiple sclerosis (MS) presented with shortness of breath (SOB) and an allergic reaction during the third infusion of natalizumab. What is the most appropriate action to take next?

1304. A young lady presents with acute right diplopia. No previous attacks. Brain MRI shows enhancement of lesions. What is the next step in management?

1305. A young female presents with symptoms of bilateral lower limb weakness, loss of all sensory modalities up to the umbilicus, and bladder involvement. What is the diagnosis?

1306. To prevent PML in patients receiving Tysabri, what is the best approach?

1307. For patients who cannot tolerate high-dose corticosteroids or have refractory disease, which of the following treatments is an alternative?

1308. Q159. A young female treated for confirmed HSV presents with behavioral changes, a normal MRI of the brain, and focal facial myoclonic seizures. What is the likely diagnosis?

1309. A 22-year-old female presented with acute confusion and later developed seizures and orofacial dyskinesia. CSF analysis was suggestive of autoimmune encephalitis. What is the most common paraneoplastic antibody to look for?

1310. A young male patient with isolated optic neuritis is concerned that he may have multiple sclerosis. What is the most appropriate next step investigation?

1311. An MS patient on natalizumab started to have shortness of breath, tachycardia, and tachypnea after the 3rd dose. What will you do next?

1312. A patient presents with symptoms of stiff person syndrome. What is the most likely antibody associated with this condition?

1313. Which of the following MRI characteristics is the best predictor of future disability in patients with multiple sclerosis?

1314. Opsoclonus-myoclonus syndrome presents with subacute opsoclonus (irregular, rapid eye movements) and multifocal or generalized myoclonus. In adults, this syndrome may be due to which of the following aetiologies?

1315. Q175. A young male is brought by his father with complaints of catatonia, psychosis, seizure, and dysautonomia. Which of the following antibodies is most likely associated with his condition?

1316. What is the most appropriate diagnostic method for primary CNS angiitis (PACNS)?

1317. In a case of transverse myelitis, MRI reveals multiple enhancing lesions in the brain and spinal cord. Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?

1318. What does the absence of brain lesions predict regarding the risk of MS over the next 15 years?

1319. What is the estimated risk of developing multiple sclerosis (MS) in patients with normal brain MRI and transverse myelitis?

1320. Which MRI feature is most closely associated with the progression of disability in multiple sclerosis patients?

1321. A 19-year-old man presents with confusion. MRI shows right thalamic hyperintensity on FLAIR and around the 3rd ventricle, suggestive of diencephalic syndrome. He has no fever. What should be checked?

1322. Which medication is used to improve MS-related fatigue?

1323. In idiopathic partial transverse myelitis, what is the likelihood of evolving multiple sclerosis at 15–44%?

1324. A 45-year-old woman with a greater-than-20-year history of multiple sclerosis is nonambulatory and dependent for all activities of daily living. She is taking 100 mg of baclofen daily. Which of the following therapies is most likely to improve this patient's quality of life?

1325. A patient came with a 1-month history of fever, headache, and personality changes. Brain MRI shows bilateral cortical/subcortical hypodensities involving frontal, parietal, and occipital lobes. CSF analysis shows elevated protein. Which diagnosis can be demonstrated by T2 lesions in at least two areas of the CNS?

1326. A case of relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS) with a history of type 1 diabetes mellitus and depression is presented. What is the best treatment for her?

1327. In a scenario involving a patient with multiple sclerosis, what criteria are applied for diagnosis?

1328. A female patient is admitted to the psychiatric ward with delusions and hallucinations, and then develops seizures and fever. What is the most likely diagnosis?

1329. A female patient with optic neuritis has one periventricular MRI lesion. What is the next step in management?

1330. A patient presents with painful visual loss in one eye with disc edema. What is the recommended treatment?

1331. A young female with bilateral optic neuritis, brain MRI showed enhanced contrast in the posterior segment of the optic nerve extending to the optic chiasm, partially improved after pulse steroid after 5 days but visual acuity still 20/200. What is the best next step?

1332. A patient with multiple sclerosis (MS) presents with tonic spasms. What is the treatment?

1333. A 28-year-old female with a history of multiple sclerosis (MS) on natalizumab presents with left-sided weakness and visual disturbances. She received 5 days of methotrexate with no response and was found to have positive neutralizing antibodies against natalizumab. MRI shows evidence of new lesions. What should be done next?

1334. A 35-year-old female patient, medically free, presents with heat intolerance, lower limb weakness, sensory symptoms, and urinary incontinence. Her symptoms worsen after stress at work. What will you do next?

1335. Which of the following infections is more common with a B-cell lysis agent compared to interferon?

1336. Q304. What is the risk of malignancies associated with the use of a B-cell lysis agent?

1337. A 32-year-old female presents with bilateral blurry vision and decreased visual acuity. Initial MRI of the brain is normal. Later, she develops paraplegia, numbness, and sphincter dysfunction. ANA is positive, AQP-4 antibody is negative, and CSF shows negative OCB. MRI reveals increased signal from T6 to T10. What is the diagnosis?

1338. A patient with type 1 diabetes mellitus presents with a history of stiffness. What is the most likely antibody associated with this condition?

1339. What is the pathophysiology of sarcoidosis?

1340. In a typical scenario of a stiff person, an EMG showed continuous contractions. What is the antibody associated with this condition?

1341. A patient came with bilateral optic neuritis; MRI showed high signal intensity in the bilateral optic nerves. What is the diagnosis?

1342. A patient known to have multiple sclerosis (MS) but also has psoriasis. What disease-modifying therapy (DMT) should be given?

1343. In the scenario of a male patient with unilateral optic neuritis and brain MRI showing 3 supracortical lesions, with no history of any symptoms before, what is the most likely diagnosis?

1344. In the scenario of a male patient with isolated optic neuritis, what will help you in the diagnosis?

1345. A young female with subacute behavioral change is admitted under psychiatric care. An MRI shows mesial temporal hyperintensity. The suspected condition is associated with which tumor?

1346. A 20-year-old female patient known to have multiple sclerosis is on interferon therapy. She had right-sided weakness and was managed with methylprednisolone, improving significantly. A few days later, her symptoms returned but were milder. What is the next step in management?

1347. A child presents with symptoms suggestive of multiple sclerosis (MS). What is the most significant risk factor for developing MS?

1348. Which of the following is considered a red flag in multiple sclerosis?

1349. In a case of multiple sclerosis fulfilling diagnostic criteria, what is the next step after acute management?

1350. Q30. Treatment of acute attacks of NMOSD includes which of the following?

1351. In a pediatric patient with progressive focal seizures, hemiparesis, and MRI evidence of unilateral perisylvian atrophy suggestive of Rasmussen syndrome, which autoantibody has been historically associated with this condition?

1352. In a scenario of Miller Fisher syndrome, which antibody is typically associated with this condition?

1353. Q87. Autonomic dysfunction can be associated with which of the following antibodies?

1354. A young female with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS) on Interferon presents with MRI showing multiple enhancing white matter lesions. What is the next step in management?

1355. Q85. Increased liver enzymes and increased erythrocyte sedimentation rate are findings that support the diagnosis of which condition?

1356. Q71. In a case scenario of a patient with MS on natalizumab, attached to an MRI brain and spine, what should be done next?

1357. A female patient came in with encephalitis (history of seizure, fever, psychosis). What is the likely antibody involved?

1358. Q112. What is recommended regarding the use of corticosteroids during the first trimester of pregnancy in women with MS?

1359. For progressive multiple sclerosis, which of the following is a characteristic of the primary progressive subtype?

1360. A young female presented with decreased vision in the right eye and was found to have optic neuritis. Brain MRI showed multiple supratentorial T2 lesions, with no previous history of any neurological symptoms. What will you do next?

1361. Q65. In a typical case of stiff person syndrome (history of lordosis), what is the diagnosis?

1362. In the same scenario, what is the best next step of treatment?

1363. Q88. A female patient with multiple neurological complaints, hearing loss, and retinal artery occlusion may be diagnosed with which condition?

1364. Q106. In a patient who has had an episode of optic neuritis and a normal MRI, what is the 5-year risk for having multiple sclerosis?

1365. In a longitudinal study, what was the 15-year risk of developing Multiple Sclerosis (MS) based on clinical criteria alone?

1366. A patient diagnosed with multiple sclerosis and started on disease-modifying therapy (DMT) one year later had a relapse. MRI shows long extensive spinal hyperintensity of the spinal cord with an axial view showing a trident sign. What is the pathophysiology of this diagnosis?

1367. An MS patient who is pregnant received IV Methylprednisolone. What will happen to the newborn?

1368. A patient with two or more clinical attacks of multiple sclerosis requires:

1369. A 7-year-old boy has recurrent focal seizures involving the right side of his body. Sometimes, these evolve to epilepsia partialis continua. On examination, he has right-sided weakness and his MRI shows perisylvian atrophy. Which of the following antibodies is likely to be present in his CSF?

1370. Which cells in the brain are mostly responsible for MS pathogenesis?

1371. Q158. A young female patient presents with right leg weakness and incontinence, with no previous neurological complaints. MRI shows two periventricular lesions on FLAIR and one enhancing lesion on T1 with contrast, along with multiple small lesions on whole spine MRI T2. What is the most likely diagnosis?

1372. Q217. What is the recommended action in the event of anaphylaxis with Natalizumab?

1373. Ataxia can be present in which of the following conditions?

1374. A patient with relapsing–remitting multiple sclerosis on disease-modifying therapy reports bilateral blurred vision. Which of the following DMTs is most likely responsible?

1375. A patient with one clinical attack of multiple sclerosis has:

1376. In young adults presenting with nausea and vomiting, which condition is associated with the area postrema?

1377. Which medication is contraindicated if the patient has a history of seizure?

1378. Decreased consciousness and ataxia can be present in which condition?

1379. Which of the following is associated with acute pandysautonomia?

1380. Q249. A 24-year-old female with a previous history of mouth ulcers presents with a 4-day history of headache and right-sided weakness, along with a one-month history of headache, nausea, and vomiting. On examination, she has mouth ulcers. What is the likely diagnosis?

1381. Q259. In idiopathic acute transverse myelitis, which region is most commonly affected?

1382. A patient presents with transient headache and on-off hemiplegia, lumbar puncture shows CSF lymphocytosis. The most likely diagnosis is:

1383. What is the most common diagnostic test used to assess MS?

1384. Q272. A 45-year-old lady has progressive lower limb weakness and spasticity. She has two siblings with the same disease. Oligoclonal bands (OCB) in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) are positive, and MRI shows typical findings for multiple sclerosis. What is the diagnosis?

1385. A child presents with decreased vision in both eyes, papilledema, and no confusion. An orbital MRI shows anterior bilateral optic nerve enhancement. What is the diagnosis?

1386. Q255. The presence of characteristic MS lesions may allow patients to meet MS diagnostic criteria. Which of the following is NOT a characteristic lesion?

1387. Q264. What is the significance of lesion location in predicting rapid disability in CIS patients?

1388. Which of the following risk factors is associated with an odds ratio of 3.6 for multiple sclerosis?

1389. Q302. What is the percentage of infections observed in patients treated with a B-cell lysis agent compared to those treated with interferon?

1390. Q309. A patient with multiple sclerosis (MS) experiences spasticity and difficulty with gait. Which medication is likely to improve his gait?

1391. Q268. What is the DMT that requires antiviral prophylaxis?

1392. A young female with a history of two optic neuritis attacks presents with new symptoms of spinal cord lesions. Aquaporin-4 is negative, and MRI showed C8–T10 lesions. What is the most likely diagnosis?

1393. Which of the following scenarios is most likely to develop multiple sclerosis (MS)?

1394. What is a red flag for multiple sclerosis (MS)?

1395. A 24-year-old female developed abrupt vision loss in the left eye, which then affected the right eye after two to three days and was static thereafter. Fundoscopy showed pale optic discs. What is the next immediate step?

1396. An MRI of the spine suggests demyelination. The patient complains of contractions and pain, and the MRI is stable. What is the treatment?

1397. A case of MOG presenting with bilateral optic neuritis and brain MRI shows anterior optic nerve swelling and enhancement. What is the diagnosis?

1398. Q379. Which DMT causes immune thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP)?

1399. Q357. A female patient with a long history of MS on fingolimod presents with decreased vision and has decreased acuity in one eye without eye pain. What is the next step in management?

1400. A young patient presents with a history of encephalopathy, weakness, and hearing loss. An MRI of the brain is performed. Which condition is most likely indicated by these symptoms?

1401. Q270. What is a red flag for demyelination?

1402. Young lady with SLE complained of seizures and confusion this time. SLE nephritis on dialysis. What is your diagnosis?

1403. Q378. Which DMT has a 20% increased risk of autoimmune disorders?

1404. A woman with multiple sclerosis on fingolimod has a brain MRI showing new active lesions in the left frontal lobe. What is the most appropriate next step in management?

1405. Q381. A young female with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS) has a previous history of transverse myelitis. She was on Fingolimod but stopped it and became pregnant. She has worsening weakness and noticed a change in urine smell. What is she most likely experiencing?

1406. In the same scenario of the young female with sudden left-sided weakness, what would you give for her symptoms over the last 5 days?

1407. Q269. Which symptom indicates worsening in primary progressive multiple sclerosis (PPMS)?

1408. A patient with multiple sclerosis presented with leg weakness that improved with steroids but recurred after one week. What is the next step in management?

1409. Which of the following has an indication in multiple sclerosis disease progression?

1410. In patients with high-risk clinically isolated syndrome (CIS), which of the following factors is predictive of future rapid disability worsening as measured by EDSS?

1411. A trident sign is observed on MRI spine in a case of relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS) that is not improving despite being on disease-modifying therapy (DMT). What is the diagnosis?

1412. In which case would steroids have an effect?

1413. Which of the following is considered a red flag in multiple sclerosis (MS)?

1414. Q385. What is the risk of multiple sclerosis (MS) in 15 years if there is a history of optic neuritis and several T2 supratentorial lesions?

1415. Q144. A 19-year-old female presented with a history of seizures. One month before presentation, she had depression, social isolation, personality changes, and hallucinations. She was taken to a psychiatrist and was given antipsychotic medications. The examination was unremarkable except for orofacial dyskinesia. What is the most likely diagnosis?

1416. Which of the following MRI characteristics is the best predictor of future disability in patients with multiple sclerosis?

1417. A patient diagnosed with Multiple Sclerosis is being evaluated. What would be a favorable factor in her case?

1418. Which of the following treatments causes rebound multiple sclerosis (MS) if stopped?

1419. What is the most important risk factor for multiple sclerosis (MS)?

1420. AQP4-IgG is a specific, pathogenic biomarker of which condition?

1421. A young male had an isolated single attack of focal neurological deficit and did not start on DMT. What is the percentage chance of having a second attack?

1422. A male patient with limbic encephalitis (seizures, psychosis) is asked about the most common antibody associated with this condition. Which of the following is the correct answer?

1423. A patient was treated for multiple sclerosis and presents with myelitis, showing a trident sign and LETM with expansile and avidly enhancing dorsal cord on imaging. What is the likely etiology?

1424. A female with pure sensory neuropathy and nerve conduction studies showing a demyelinating neuropathy is likely to have:

1425. What type of cell is primarily involved in MS lesions?

1426. Which of the following is a characteristic of primary progressive multiple sclerosis according to McDonald criteria 2017?

1427. Which DMT causes ITP? (attached picture of purpura)

1428. For patients without brain lesions at the onset of optic neuritis, when was the risk of developing MS greatest?

1429. Q121. A patient was diagnosed with Multiple Sclerosis for 8 months, based on an initial attack of transverse myelitis causing lower limb symptoms. Now she is pregnant and off disease-modifying therapy (DMT). She presented with lower limb numbness and reported a change in her urine smell and odor. What is the diagnosis?

1430. An MS patient with a history of recurrent relapses has been stable on natalizumab for the past 7 months. However, he has started to show signs of confusion, suggestive of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML). What should be done next?

1431. Q125. What DMT has a 30% increased risk of secondary autoimmune disorders?

1432. A woman who had repeated episodes of vomiting for one month visited the ER and was given omeprazole. She experienced visual changes in both eyes at different times. Now, she presents with symptoms of transverse myelitis (TM). What is the diagnosis?

1433. A female patient with MS on glatiramer acetate wants to take the flu vaccine. What is the best recommendation?

1434. In patients with optic neuritis, what was the risk of developing MS when MRI evidence of prior demyelination was present?

1435. Gadolinium contrast enhancement is present in essentially all cases of which condition?

1436. The periventricular white lesion typical of multiple sclerosis (MS) follows a specific pattern in the distribution of which following structure?

1437. A patient presents with autonomic dysfunction and pupillary changes (miosis). What is the antibody associated with this condition?

1438. In the evaluation of autoimmune myelopathy, what is standard practice regarding MRI?

1439. An MS patient on disease-modifying therapy (DMT) lost follow-up and presented to the ER with low platelets and a skin rash. What medication might they be on?

1440. A patient with a known case of Multiple Sclerosis (MS) used a medication that causes flushing. What is the mechanism of action of that drug?

1441. Typical multiple sclerosis (MS) presentation includes one or more episodes of:

1442. Q33. In the scenario of a patient with Giant Cell Arteritis (GCA) presenting with loss of vision, what is the most appropriate management?

1443. Q243. In the case of PML (Progressive Multifocal Leukoencephalopathy) occurring in patients treated with Natalizumab, what is the appropriate treatment?

1444. Which of the following is considered a red flag in multiple sclerosis?

1445. A patient with multiple sclerosis on fingolimod for a couple of years developed weakness and slurred speech. VZV test was positive, and his JCV before starting treatment was negative. What should be done next?

1446. Q185. In a case of Susac syndrome, a young female presents with sensorineural hearing loss (SNHL), encephalopathy, and decreased vision. What is the pathophysiology?

1447. Young female patient with multiple sclerosis suffers from fatigue, what is the treatment?

1448. Which of the following statements is true regarding multiple sclerosis?

1449. Q335. Which condition is associated with features of encephalitis and an ovarian tumor?

1450. Q171. A young lady presents with unilateral optic neuritis. Brain MRI shows enhancing lesions. What is the next step in management?

1451. A child with a history of vaccination presents with confusion. What is the likely diagnosis?

1452. In a patient with ataxia and breast cancer presenting with opsoclonus myoclonus, which antibody is most likely to be present?

1453. Demyelination is commonly linked to which organism?

1454. A woman who had an episode of nausea and vomiting, along with visual changes in both eyes at different times, now presents with symptoms of transverse myelitis (TM). What is the treatment?

1455. Which of the following medications is considered safe for use in pregnant patients with multiple sclerosis?

1456. In evaluating a patient for multiple sclerosis, which of the following is NOT typically assessed?

1457. A patient with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS) has been stable on disease-modifying therapy (DMT) but stopped it 2 months ago as she wants to get pregnant. She presents with new MRI findings showing active enhancing brain lesions. What is the mechanism of the DMT that she was taking?

1458. Young lady, with encephalopathy and hearing impairment, no visual symptoms mentioned, MRI attached showed corpus callosum lesions typical of snowball sign, asking about the pathophysiology of the diagnosis?

1459. What is the chance for the development of Multiple Sclerosis (MS) with an abnormal MRI, especially periventricular lesions?

1460. Q2. What virus is most commonly associated with multiple sclerosis (MS)?

1461. Patient was diagnosed with Multiple sclerosis and has psoriasis. What is an appropriate DMT for her case?

1462. A middle-aged female presents with lower limb stiffness mainly affecting hip muscles and has lumbar hyperlordosis. What antibody is likely to be found?

1463. Q146. (Source: Part I 2018mcqs.txt) Typical features of multiple sclerosis include:

1464. A patient with intractable vomiting and nausea was admitted under GI and investigated with no identifiable cause. An MRI was done. Which of the following is a core feature for the suspected diagnosis?

1465. Young lady presented with acute decrease in vision bilaterally, MRI brain done showed hyperintensity in optic nerve, rest of MRI was normal, what is the management? (case of optic neuritis)

1466. Q364. A scenario presents a case of limbic encephalitis. What is the most likely diagnosis?

1467. In a patient with stiff person syndrome, which antibody is typically found?

1468. Q267. What is the treatment for LETM with spasms?

1469. A female with a history of Type 1 diabetes mellitus presented with symptoms of axial and peripheral muscle stiffness. What antibodies are usually found in this condition?

1470. A female patient with a known case of multiple sclerosis (MS) came with increased sensory symptoms and mentioned a change in her urine smell. What is the diagnosis?

1471. Q183. In a scenario of limbic encephalitis, what is the most likely diagnosis?

1472. In patients with NMOSD, neurologic involvement is seen in what percentage of cases?

1473. An elderly patient presents with areflexia (tendon reflexes absent), ophthalmoplegia, and impaired finger-to-nose test for the past 2 days, with no history of infection or vaccination. What is the next step in management?

1474. Q29. A patient with multiple sclerosis (MS) on disease-modifying therapy (DMT) developed hyperthyroidism. What is the most likely medication used?

1475. Q27. (Source: SleepNeurology) A patient on Natalizumab develops progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML). What is the appropriate management?

1476. Q41. A patient with multiple sclerosis developed tonic spasms. Which medication is most appropriate for treatment?

1477. A 35-year-old female patient, medically free, came with heat intolerance, lower limb weakness, and sensory symptoms, along with urinary incontinence. Her symptoms increased after stress at work. What will you do next?

1478. Q23. (Source: CriticalCareNeurology) A patient with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS) and psoriasis started on disease-modifying therapy (DMT) and showed improvement in his psoriasis. What is the DMT?

1479. Q28. A young man diagnosed with left eye optic neuritis was planned to start Teriflunomide. He has no previous history of neurological symptoms and is not interested in starting the treatment. Which of the following statements is true regarding the suspected differential diagnosis?

1480. A patient with a known case of Multiple Sclerosis used a medication that causes flushing. What is the mechanism of action of that drug?

1481. A lady diagnosed with RRMS is about to start DMT. What will you give her?

1482. A female patient with a known case of multiple sclerosis (MS) came with increased sensory symptoms and mentioned a change in her urine smell. What is the diagnosis?

1483. Q60. A patient came with bilateral optic neuritis; MRI showed high signal intensity in the bilateral optic nerves. What is the diagnosis?

1484. Q71. A 72-year-old woman presents with a 2-week history of new-onset severe temporal headache and transient visual obscurations. She is over 50 years old, and you suspect giant cell (temporal) arteritis. If her erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) cannot be obtained immediately, what should you do next?

1485. A patient diagnosed with multiple sclerosis (MS) is on treatment but shows no improvement, continuing to have recurrent attacks and an increase in disability. A detailed history reveals a recurrent history of dry eyes. What will you do?

1486. Q81. A young female has a history of left-sided weakness that lasted for 10 days and then improved. She now presents with fatigue. What is the most appropriate step of management for her current complaint?

1487. A young lady known to have MS is pregnant and asks about the percentage risk of her baby having MS. What is the estimated risk?

1488. A patient with optic neuritis and one periventricular lesion is evaluated. What do the McDonald criteria indicate?

1489. Q85. Which of the following indicates disease progression in Multiple Sclerosis (MS)?

1490. Q70. (Source: Neuroanatomy) In neuromyelitis optica (NMO), which statement is correct?

1491. Q83. A patient known to have multiple sclerosis (MS) on natalizumab develops an infusion reaction. What is the most appropriate action?

1492. Q64. (Source: Neuroanatomy) What is the odds ratio for infectious mononucleosis as a risk factor for multiple sclerosis?

1493. Q76. (Source: Neuroanatomy) What is the estimated risk of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) with rituximab?

1494. Q141. (Source: MovementDisorders) MS pathophysiology is most commonly associated with which of the following?

1495. An MS patient developed a tremor. What is the recommended treatment?

1496. Q130. Which of the following antibodies is associated with myoclonus dystonia?

1497. Q111. A patient with multiple sclerosis developed a tremor. What is the most appropriate treatment?

1498. Q208. In a case of testicular cancer, which antibody is most likely to be present?

1499. Q204. A 34-year-old male presents with myoclonus and abnormal eye movements. What is the most likely underlying condition?

1500. Q176. (Source: Neuromuscular) A young female presented with unilateral optic neuritis features. She has positive oligoclonal bands (OCB) and brain MRI shows one enhancing lesion. According to the 2017 McDonald’s criteria, what is her diagnosis?

1501. A young patient with multiple new acute strokes on MRI has a history of sensorineural hearing loss. What condition is suspected?

1502. Q142. Which risk factor has an odds ratio of 0.5 and is considered unknown in its association with multiple sclerosis?

1503. A patient with a long history of multiple sclerosis presents with fatigue. What medication would you consider as a first-line treatment?

1504. Q451. A patient receiving their third infusion of Natalizumab develops an allergy with shortness of breath. What should be done?

1505. Q210. A patient with optic neuritis and one periventricular lesion. What is her McDonald criteria?

1506. Q3. (Source: SleepNeurology) A lady known to have multiple sclerosis (MS) presents with a history of leg numbness for one year. She is currently on teriflunomide but shows no improvement. What is the next appropriate step in her management?

1507. Q275. (Source: Neuromuscular) A patient diagnosed with multiple sclerosis (MS) continues to experience relapses despite starting disease-modifying therapy (DMT). The spinal cord MRI shows a “trident sign.” What is the most likely diagnosis?

1508. A female patient came with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS) and an attached MRI of the brain and spine. What is the mechanism of the disease?

1509. In a paraneoplastic case, what should be done next?

1510. A patient with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS) received 5 days of intravenous methylprednisolone (IVMP) without improvement. What should be done next?

1511. Which factor is associated with a worse prognosis in multiple sclerosis (MS)?

1512. Q69. Which of the following indicates disease progression in multiple sclerosis (MS)?

1513. An MS patient developed tonic spasms. What is the appropriate treatment?

1514. A patient presented with focal seizures that progressed to complex partial seizures and multiple episodes of status epilepticus with hemiparesis. MRI showed hemispheric perisylvian atrophy. What will you send for?

1515. Which condition is based on astrocyte pathology?

1516. A patient presents with onset of right optic neuritis. MRI of the brain shows a brain stem lesion that is possibly enhancing and periventricular non-enhancing. What can be said about dissemination in time and space?

1517. A patient has worsening neurological symptoms for 3 years with positive oligoclonal bands (OCB). What is the treatment for primary progressive multiple sclerosis (PPMS)?

1518. Patient came with focal seizure with secondary generalization; he has focal atrophy in the brain; what is the antibody associated with this disease?

1519. A patient with multiple sclerosis experiences painful muscle spasms multiple times per day. Which medication is commonly used for this condition?

1520. Patient presents with focal seizures with secondary generalization and progressive unilateral cortical atrophy on brain MRI. Which autoantibody is most closely associated with this condition?

1521. A 24-year-old female presents with fever, headache, meningeal signs and psychiatric manifestations. CSF HSV PCR is positive, and MRI demonstrates temporal lobe petechial hemorrhages with encephalomalacia. She completes antiviral therapy and initially improves, but two weeks later develops a generalized tonic-clonic seizure. What is the most likely cause of her new seizure?

1522. Q405. What is the next step to confirm small vessel CNS vasculitis?

1523. A patient with RRMS on Natalizumab presents with worsening lower limb weakness and blurred vision over 2 months. What is the next step in management?

1524. Q82. In a long scenario for a patient with neuropathy and asthma, what is the next step in management?

1525. In a scenario involving diabetes mellitus with stiff person syndrome, what is the most likely antibody present?

1526. Q8. A patient with MS on medication presents with blurry vision and macular edema. What medication is likely responsible?

1527. In the scenario of Susac syndrome, which of the following findings can be seen on MRI?

1528. In the same case of Mononeuritis Multiplex with weight loss and fever, what is the most appropriate treatment?

1529. A female with a history of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) presents with acute onset periorbital pain, ophthalmoplegia, and sensory loss in the V1/V2 distributions suggestive of cavernous sinus syndrome. She is afebrile and a noncontrast head CT is unremarkable. What is the next step in management?

1530. What is known about the pathology of multiple sclerosis (MS)?

1531. In patients treated with natalizumab, which of the following is considered a risk factor for developing PML?

1532. Which of the following cranial nerves is primarily responsible for controlling the muscles of mastication?

1533. Q541. What is the first-line treatment for Chronic Inflammatory Demyelinating Polyneuropathy (CIDP)?

1534. Q338. A patient with multiple sclerosis (MS) is experiencing fatigue but has stable disease and no mood symptoms. What is the most appropriate treatment?

1535. Q440. A patient has stiffness and neuromyotonia on EMG, recurrent loss of consciousness, but is currently stable. He has positive potassium antibodies. What is the diagnosis?

1536. A young patient in his 30s presented to the emergency room with limb weakness that started one week ago. He has a history of pharyngitis 6 weeks ago and was treated with antibiotics. After that, he started to complain of difficulty swallowing and change in voice. Then he developed weakness involving all four limbs. On physical examination, he has bilateral flaccid weakness with absent reflexes. Which of the following is the pathophysiology responsible for the patient’s diagnosis (likely Guillain-Barré Syndrome)?

1537. Which of the following cranial nerves is primarily responsible for the sense of smell?

1538. Q295. A female patient had optic neuritis with one non-enhancing periventricular lesion. According to McDonald’s criteria and with oligoclonal bands negative, what is the diagnosis?

1539. A patient with a history of MS relapse 3 weeks ago while on interferon presents with worsening weakness for 2 days. What should be the next step in management?

1540. A female patient presents with a first episode of optic neuritis and MRI showing multiple white-matter lesions but no ongoing clinical activity. She also has a history of psoriasis. Which disease-modifying therapy is most appropriate for her?

1541. An MS patient presents with tonic spasms. What is the treatment?

1542. Which disease-modifying therapy (DMT) requires pre-antiviral agent prophylaxis?

1543. Which of the following is a classic presentation of Heerfordt syndrome?

1544. A patient is diagnosed with opsoclonus-myoclonus-ataxia syndrome. Which of the following antibodies is most likely to be identified in laboratory workup?

1545. A lady with sleep disturbances and increased sleep has an MRI showing diencephalic hyperintensity. What will you do?

1546. A patient with optic neuritis has an MRI of the spine that shows long-sequence enhancement and is OGB negative. What is the next step in management?

1547. A female patient with a known case of multiple sclerosis (MS) shows MRI findings consistent with neuromyelitis optica (NMO). What is the underlying pathophysiology?

1548. In a case of primary progressive multiple sclerosis with typical MRI features and normal cerebrospinal fluid, what is known to increase walking speed?

1549. Q67. A 16-year-old patient presents with confusion, and MRI shows bilateral white matter changes. What is the most likely diagnosis?

1550. Q81. A female patient, known to have relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis and maintained on disease-modifying therapy (DMT), presented with new limb weakness and numbness. The diagnosis of multiple sclerosis was established. She started on high-dose IV methylprednisolone but showed no improvement. Which of the following is the next step in management?

1551. A long scenario describes a lady who came with optic neuritis and had papilledema. What will you send for her?

1552. A young female patient presents with right leg weakness and urinary incontinence. Brain MRI shows two periventricular T2 lesions, and T1 post-contrast imaging demonstrates one enhancing lesion. Whole-spine MRI reveals multiple small T2 lesions. What is the most likely diagnosis?

1553. A young male patient with a known case of relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS) on natalizumab developed lower limb weakness and generalized numbness. Laboratory tests show positive anti-natalizumab antibodies, and MRI shows enhanced lesions. What is the recommended treatment?

1554. What is the best way to prevent progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) in patients with MS who will be started on Natalizumab?

1555. Which of the following is considered a red flag in multiple sclerosis?

1556. In a patient with Chronic Inflammatory Demyelinating Polyneuropathy (CIDP), what is a common finding in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF)?

1557. A 30-year-old lady presented to the ER with worsening weakness in all four extremities and sensory symptoms. She was diagnosed with multiple sclerosis three months ago after an episode of optic neuritis and was started on Natalizumab due to highly active disease. Which of the following laboratory investigations should be sent based on the suspected differential diagnosis (NMOSD)?

1558. A young female patient presents with right leg weakness and incontinence. An MRI report shows two periventricular lesions, and T1 with contrast shows one lesion enhancing. A whole spine MRI shows T2 multiple small lesions. What is the next step in management?

1559. A young female with a previous history of two optic neuritis attacks presents with new symptoms of spinal cord lesions. MRI shows extensive hyperintense T2 lesions from C8–T1, and Aquaporin‐4 is negative. What is the most likely diagnosis?

1560. A young female presented with a typical history of optic neuritis. Brain and spine MRI were normal. What is the risk of conversion to multiple sclerosis (MS)?

1561. A patient presented with typical optic neuritis, and her brain MRI was abnormal. What is the most appropriate action for management?

1562. Q57. A patient presents with a triad of areflexia, ophthalmoplegia, and ataxia (Miller Fisher syndrome). What is the recommended treatment?

1563. What are the characteristic findings in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of a patient with Acute Inflammatory Demyelinating Polyneuropathy (AIDP)?

1564. A 30-year-old male, known case of type 1 diabetes mellitus, presented 3 months ago with optic neuritis and was started on one of the DMTs as a case of multiple sclerosis. He now presents with a 3-day history of blurred vision. Examination and brain MRI are stable compared with previous documentation. Which DMT is likely responsible for this presentation?

1565. An MS female patient had a relapse 3 weeks ago, which improved after she received steroids. Two days ago, she came to the ER with the same complaint of right-sided weakness. What will you do?

1566. Q78. In a patient with ataxia-telangiectasia, which of the following immunoglobulin levels is typically observed?

1567. In the management of a patient diagnosed with PML, what is the most appropriate step?

1568. Which of the following disease-modifying therapies (DMT) is known to cause paresthesia?

1569. Trigeminal neuralgia in young age, diagnosis is best made by:

1570. A female patient with a long history of multiple sclerosis (MS) on fingolimod presents with spasticity and gait issues, and her MRI shows no active disease. What should be done next for her gait?

1571. In the same scenario [Implicitly related to an MS/NMO context], what is the most likely diagnosis for her condition?

1572. What is the diagnosis for a patient presenting with symptoms consistent with Chronic Inflammatory Demyelinating Polyneuropathy (CIDP)?

1573. A female patient with jaw claudication and temporal headache, who also has joint pain and diffuse muscle ache, what is the next step?

1574. Q50. A lady presents with personality changes and hearing loss. MRI findings are pending. Which condition is most likely associated with these symptoms?

1575. A 55-year-old patient presented with left lower limb paresthesia and heaviness that progressively worsened, ascending to involve the upper limbs, accompanied by intermittent abdominal pain and hyperhidrosis. He received a vaccination 2 weeks prior. What is the most likely diagnosis?

1576. An 18-year-old boy presents with vertigo and an exaggerated dermatological reaction during IV insertion. MRI findings are pending. Which condition is most likely associated with these symptoms?

1577. In a scenario of neuromyelitis optica (NMO) with bilateral optic neuritis and transverse myelitis extending over more than 3 segments, which of the following is most useful for diagnosis?

1578. Which of the following adverse effects is most commonly associated with the first infusion of a B-cell lysis agent?

1579. Q38. A patient with multiple sclerosis presents with the left eye showing no abduction or adduction, while the right eye has abduction only. What is the likely diagnosis?

1580. An elderly patient presents with areflexia (tendon reflex not obtained), ophthalmoplegia, and impaired finger-to-nose test for the past 2 days, with no history of infection or vaccination. What is the likely antibody involved?

1581. A patient with relapsing–remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS) has been on fingolimod for 18 months. His annual brain MRI now shows two new gadolinium-enhancing lesions without clinical relapse. What is the next step in management?

1582. A 54-year-old male presents with neck pain and tingling sensations in both hands. He has a history of small joint pain and swelling. What is the most likely diagnosis based on the MRI findings?

1583. Q196. A 15-year-old girl presents to the emergency room with confusion and seizure. Her parents note that she has been more forgetful and irritable, and her behavior has become bizarre. On the morning of presentation, she had a generalized tonic-clonic seizure. IV acyclovir and phenytoin were started. MRI of the brain and EEG are normal. After three days, her clinical status does not improve. CSF PCR is negative for HSV, VZV, EBV. Which of the following autoantibodies is most likely to be responsible for her presentation?

1584. A patient with multiple sclerosis presents with optic neuritis (ON). The MRI shows one periventricular lesion. What is the most likely diagnosis?

1585. In multiple sclerosis (MS), what is the pattern of distribution of lesions?

1586. What is the odds ratio for smoking as a risk factor for multiple sclerosis?

1587. A patient with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) complicated by nephritis presents with acute behavioral changes and seizures. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) analysis shows lymphocytosis and positive oligoclonal bands (OCB). Which of the following conditions is most likely?

1588. Which statement is true regarding multiple sclerosis (MS)?

1589. Which of the following is a feature of optic neuritis due to multiple sclerosis?

1590. What is the mechanism of action of Ocrelizumab?

1591. A young lady with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) complained of seizures and confusion. She has SLE nephritis and is on dialysis. What is your diagnosis?

1592. What is the best way to diagnose small vessel vasculitis?

1593. Which of the following is a probable risk factor for multiple sclerosis with an odds ratio of 1.4?

1594. A 78-year-old female presents with bilateral headaches and facial pain when eating, accompanied by decreased vision in one eye. What is the most likely cause of her visual loss?

1595. A patient over 60 years old presents with a 1-month history of blurry vision and headache. What is the next step in management?

1596. Which one of the following is a feature of optic neuritis due to multiple sclerosis?

1597. Which of the following is the most common presentation of Giant Cell Arteritis (GCA)?

1598. Young lady with SLE who has a neurological deficit. What is your diagnosis?

1599. An 18-year-old woman is referred to your office after branch retinal artery occlusion occurred in each eye several months apart. Her examination reveals moderate hearing loss in the right ear in addition to visual field cuts in each eye. A brain MRI reveals multiple small cortical strokes in the frontal lobes and left parietal lobe. What is the diagnosis?

1600. A key feature associated with optic neuritis in the context of Multiple Sclerosis (MS) is:

1601. Q342. An elderly patient presented with a visual field defect but denied having left homonymous hemianopia. A CT brain scan was performed. What is the explanation for her issue?

1602. A young female patient was admitted to the psychiatric ward with non-specific abnormal movements, agitation, and other psychiatric issues. An MRI showed a normal temporal lobe. What is the most likely diagnosis?

1603. A young lady presents with persistent nausea and vomiting. Brain MRI is unremarkable. Based on the suspected diagnosis, which criteria is core?

1604. Q214. Regarding Teriflunomide 14 mg compared to interferon, which statement is correct?

1605. Q209. (Source: Vascularneurologystroke) Which of the following is counted as a red flag of Multiple Sclerosis (MS)?

1606. Which visual field defect is characterized by contralateral homonymous hemianopia with macular sparing?

1607. A young male presents with central vision loss in the right eye, followed by central vision loss in the left eye a month later, and then develops hearing loss. What is the most likely diagnosis?

1608. Q52. In a case of relative afferent pupillary defect (RAPD) in the right eye with right homonymous hemianopia, what is the localization?

1609. A patient with headache and papilledema, the headache increases when she lies down, and she has mild visual obscuration. What is the next management step?

1610. A patient is unable to track with his eyes and has to shake his head to change his gaze. What is this condition called?

1611. Q6. What imaging is needed for the evaluation of a suspected diabetic 3rd nerve palsy?

1612. A 32-year-old obese woman (BMI 35) presents with progressive headache and transient blurry vision. On examination she has bilateral papilledema; brain MRI is normal. She reports acne and is taking high-dose vitamin A. What is the recommended first-line treatment?

1613. A patient with stroke who is unable to move his eyes from one object to another and uses head thrusting is likely experiencing:

1614. A 32-year-old male is involved in a high-speed road-traffic accident. On examination he has unilateral ptosis and miosis but no anhidrosis of the face, and the rest of his general neurological and systemic examination is normal. What is your localization?

1615. In a patient with right eye optic neuritis, what would you expect to see in the visual evoked potential (VEP)?

1616. In Horner’s syndrome, what can hydroxyamphetamine do?

1617. A patient presents with binocular diplopia, with a vertical image from the right eye. The diplopia worsens with reading or when looking down to the right side. Which cranial nerve is affected?

1618. In a patient with bilateral papilledema, which cranial nerve is most likely to be affected?

1619. A patient has left eye hypertropia and improves with a head tilt to the left. Where is the lesion?

1620. Q101. A female patient presents with impaired adduction on right gaze and nystagmus in the other eye. What is the likely diagnosis?

1621. Q34. A patient with a history of blurry vision and headache has acne and is taking vitamin A. Examination showed papilledema, BMI 35, and MRI report: normal. Which of the following is the appropriate management?

1622. Which visual field defect is associated with damage to the optic chiasm?

1623. Q29. A patient with right optic neuritis will show what in visual evoked potential?

1624. Q33. A classic presentation of Idiopathic Intracranial Hypertension (IIH) is described. What is the first-line treatment?

1625. Q48. Requires diagnosis of internuclear ophthalmoplegia (INO), a specific gaze abnormality, based on its clinical description.

1626. A patient presents with acute, rapid-onset vision loss in the right eye without any visual field defect in the left eye. Where is the lesion most likely located?

1627. A female patient presents with impaired adduction on the right gaze and nystagmus in the other eye. What is the likely diagnosis?

1628. For the following visual field defect, where do you localize the lesion?

1629. In a case scenario, a patient experiences diplopia that worsens when looking toward his left hand down and to the left, more than toward his right hand, and even more than when looking horizontally. Where is the lesion located?

1630. Downbeat Nystagmus is most commonly associated with which of the following lesions?

1631. For each patient with visual loss, select the most likely loss area from the list below.

1632. A patient presents with horizontal nystagmus in primary gaze that reverses every 90 seconds. What is the diagnosis?

1633. Q51. A 28-year-old obese woman presents with daily throbbing headaches, transient visual obscurations, and pulsatile tinnitus. Ophthalmologic examination reveals bilateral papilledema; brain MRI/MRV are normal. Which of the following is the most appropriate initial management for idiopathic intracranial hypertension?

1634. A 5-day postpartum patient presents with right eye ptosis. On examination, the right pupil measures 3 mm in dim light while the left pupil measures 5 mm. What is the most likely cause of the anisocoria observed in this patient?

1635. A patient with headache and papilledema, the headache increased when she lies down and she had mild visual obscuration. What is the next management step?

1636. What suggests central nystagmus?

1637. What MRI finding is commonly associated with idiopathic intracranial hypertension (IIH)?

1638. What is true about popping nystagmus?

1639. In a case of right eye complete vision loss with superior temporal defects in the contralateral eye, what is the localization?

1640. A 45-year-old man suffers bilateral vertebral artery dissections and multiple brainstem and cerebellar infarctions causing right hemiplegia, dysarthria, and dysphagia. Two years later, he returns complaining of oscillopsia at rest. What is the likely examination finding?

1641. A patient after minor trauma was reading a newspaper and presented with diplopia, worse when the patient looks down and to the left. The outer image came from the right eye. What is the muscle affected?

1642. A patient with right relative afferent pupillary defect (RAPD) and right homonymous hemianopia is evaluated. Where is the lesion?

1643. Which visual field defect is characterized by loss of vision in the lower quadrant of the visual field?

1644. What is the most common cause of fourth cranial nerve (CN) palsy?

1645. A patient has left eye hypertropia that improves with a head tilt to the left. Where is the lesion located?

1646. In a scenario about right internuclear ophthalmoplegia (INO), where is the lesion located?

1647. A 22-year-old male presents with symptoms suggestive of right fourth cranial nerve palsy. What is the most likely cause?

1648. Susac syndrome is associated with a clinical triad of which of the following?

1649. Q38. Requires interpretation of the Bielschowsky head tilt test to localize the side of a trochlear nerve (CN IV) palsy.

1650. A case scenario of a patient with one eye ptosis and normal pupils is presented. What is the most likely cause?

1651. A case scenario describes a patient with a history of blurry vision and headache. She has acne and is taking vitamin A. Examination shows papilledema, BMI 35, and a normal MRI report. Which of the following is the appropriate management?

1652. The amplitude of the oscillation is larger in the right eye. Which of the following structures is most likely to be abnormal on MRI?

1653. A 45-year-old man suffers bilateral vertebral artery dissection leading to brain stem and cerebellar infarctions, causing right hemiplegia and dysphagia. Two years later, he returns complaining of oscillopsia. Examination reveals a 1-Hz pendular oscillation with conjugate vertical and torsional components. The right eye extorts as it falls while the left eye extorts as it rises. The amplitude of the oscillation is larger in the right eye. Which structure is most likely to be abnormal?

1654. A patient presents with symptoms and signs consistent with idiopathic intracranial hypertension (IIH), including headache, transient visual obscurations, and papilledema on funduscopic exam; neuroimaging is unremarkable. What is the most appropriate initial management?

1655. Q42. A clinical feature suggestive of right medial longitudinal fasciculus (MLF) involvement includes impaired right eye adduction with left eye nystagmus on abduction. Where is the lesion located?

1656. Q21. Requires localization of the lesion causing specific pendular nystagmus post-brainstem stroke by understanding the involved eye movement control pathways.*

1657. What would suggest central nystagmus rather than peripheral nystagmus?

1658. Most common cause of isolated 4th nerve palsy is:

1659. Q26. In a patient with ipsilateral scotoma and contralateral quadrantanopia, where is the localization of the lesion? (Describes junctional scotoma variant)

1660. Which visual field defect is characterized by loss of vision in the upper quadrant of the visual field?

1661. In a case of acute painless vision loss (Non-AION), what is the appropriate treatment?

1662. Hydroxyamphetamine drops help differentiate between which conditions?

1663. In the case of giant cell arteritis, what is the next step in management?

1664. Q111. A young patient presents with one eye visual loss followed by hearing loss. What is the likely diagnosis?

1665. Which of the following has a large effect on Relative Afferent Pupillary Defect (RAPD)?

1666. A patient presents with eye pain that worsens with movement. Which of the following conditions could be the cause?

1667. In the case of the largest relative afferent pupillary defect (RAPD), which structure is primarily affected?

1668. Q55. Focuses on the utility of hydroxyamphetamine drops in localizing Horner's syndrome (differentiating pre- vs. post-ganglionic lesions).

1669. In an embryological problem of the optic chiasm, what finding would you expect to see in the examination?

1670. Requires recognition of Susac syndrome based on key features including visual and hearing loss.

1671. Q20. Examination of patients with anisocoria using hydroxyamphetamine eye drops helps in the diagnosis of?

1672. In a scenario of Leber's Hereditary Optic Neuropathy (LHON), what diagnostic tests would you consider to assess complications of this condition?

1673. In a case of optic neuritis in the right eye, which of the following findings is consistent with the condition?

1674. A patient had left eye heterotopia and skew deviation, tilting to the right. Where is the lesion?

1675. A middle-aged patient presented with sudden severe headache and double vision. Examination shows complete right ptosis and decreased visual acuity in the right eye. What is the possible diagnosis?

1676. A patient with Horner syndrome did not respond to either hydroxyamphetamine or cocaine. What is the most likely location of the lesion?

1677. Q73. A patient with Horner syndrome did not respond to either hydroxyamphetamine or cocaine. What type of lesion is most likely?

1678. Q323. What is the most common cause of trochlear nerve atrophy?

1679. A 75-year-old male patient with a history of hypertension and diabetes mellitus presents with chronic symptoms of polymyalgia rheumatica, severe headache, and visual loss in the right eye. Fundoscopic examination shows cotton wool exudates and an elevated ESR. What is the most appropriate next step in management?

1680. A female patient presents with central nervous system manifestations, including hearing loss and retinal artery occlusion. Which of the following conditions is most likely?

1681. Q14. What is the most common cause of trochlear nerve palsy?

1682. A 45-year-old female presented with visual blurring and is diagnosed with Brun’s nystagmus. Brun’s nystagmus is characterized by low-frequency, large-amplitude horizontal nystagmus when looking toward the side of the lesion, and high-frequency, small-amplitude nystagmus when looking away from the lesion. The large-amplitude nystagmus is caused by compression of which structure?

1683. A patient presents with Horner’s syndrome that does not react to cocaine or amphetamine. What type of lesion is indicated?

1684. Q352. What is the artery associated with a left sectoranopia sparing the horizontal meridian?

1685. A patient with subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) complains of visual issues, and examination shows retinal problems (Terson syndrome). Where is the issue for vision?

1686. A young lady presents with proptosis, ptosis, complete ophthalmoplegia, and decreased sensation in V1 and V2. What will you do?

1687. In a scenario of idiopathic intracranial hypertension, what can you see on brain MRI?

1688. Q279. A patient came with right optic atrophy and left papilledema. Where is the localization of the mass?

1689. Q12. A patient is worse when he looks down to the left, with intact horizontal gaze and no other neurological symptoms. What is the localization of the issue?

1690. A patient with right relative afferent pupillary defect (RAPD) and right homonymous hemianopia; where is the lesion?

1691. A male presents with progressive external ophthalmoplegia and bilateral ptosis, with symptom onset before 10 years of age. What is the most likely diagnosis?

1692. Patient came with Leber optic neuropathy; what is your next step?

1693. A patient with ptosis is evaluated with Hydroxyamphetamine. What does this test differentiate?

1694. Q30. A patient had optic neuritis in the right eye. What is the finding in the visual potential test?

1695. A 73-year-old male presented with severe temporal-sided headache associated with jaw claudication and visual acuity reduced bilaterally. What vessel is likely affected in this typical scenario for Giant Cell Arteritis (GCA)?

1696. Q124. Which of the following infections can cause internuclear ophthalmoplegia (INO)?

1697. A young adult has progressive bilateral painless decrease in visual acuity over 2–3 years. His brother had similar symptoms a few years ago. What should be tested in this patient? (Case of Leber’s disease)

1698. Q23. Where is the location of popping nystagmus?

1699. A young male presents with progressive bilateral ptosis and ophthalmoparesis, with no family history. What is the most likely diagnosis?

1700. Which type of visual field defect is characterized by a loss of vision in one eye?

1701. A patient with Parkinson's disease presented with peak dose dyskinesia. Which medication is most commonly used to manage this condition?

1702. A patient with frequent falls and vertical gaze palsy shows tectal atrophy on Brain MRI. What condition is most likely indicated?

1703. The disruption within the Guillain-Mollaret triangle is associated with which type of palatal myoclonus?

1704. A patient with progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) presents with impaired vertical gaze and axial rigidity. What is the diagnosis?

1705. A Parkinson’s patient on medication develops wearing-off phenomena. What is the mechanism?

1706. Q46. Essential palatal myoclonus is frequently associated with which of the following characteristics?

1707. Axial brain CT shows bilateral caudate atrophy. What is the most likely diagnosis?

1708. A young patient presents with dystonia and myoclonus. Which of the following is a characteristic feature of myoclonic-dystonia DYT11?

1709. A female patient has a tremor and her father has a tremor; the father reported that his tremor is improved with wine. What is the diagnosis?

1710. Which type of palatal myoclonus is characterized by palatal movements due to contractions of the levator veli palatini and is often associated with other symptoms related to a causative lesion?

1711. In a case of multiple system atrophy (MSA), what radiological finding is commonly associated?

1712. A 62-year-old woman has experienced progressive unsteady gait and recurrent falls over the past 3 years, accompanied by urinary urgency progressing to incontinence. Brain MRI demonstrates prominent midbrain atrophy with a “hummingbird” appearance. What is the most likely diagnosis?

1713. An elderly male patient with a history suggestive of Parkinson’s disease (tremors, rigidity, and bradykinesia) presents for evaluation. What is the next step in management?

1714. A 60-year-old male presented with a history of falls, dyskinesia, and depression. His sister died at age 50 from the same condition. What is the diagnosis?

1715. A 30-year-old male presents with a history of symmetrical action tremor that improves with alcohol. What is the most likely diagnosis?

1716. A young man who is a law student in the last year of college has a long-standing intentional tremor that has worsened over the past few months. He has bronchial asthma and is on inhalers. What is the most appropriate treatment?

1717. What medication is commonly used to treat essential tremor in a patient with asthma?

1718. What is dyskinesia related to essential physiological conditions?

1719. A patient with parkinsonism, ataxia, falls, and orthostatic hypotension has an MRI showing a "hot cross bun" sign. What is the likely diagnosis?

1720. If a patient with orthostatic tremor does not respond to clonazepam, what is the next step in management?

1721. In a patient on risperidone, how can you differentiate tardive dyskinesia from Huntington’s disease?

1722. A patient presents with bilateral action and postural tremors of the hands, and her father has a similar tremor. What is the recommended treatment?

1723. In the same scenario, what is the next step in management?

1724. Q222. In a scenario of progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP), what is the most likely diagnosis?

1725. Q203. What is the first-line treatment for Sydenham chorea?

1726. Case scenario of a patient with a 5-month history of unilateral rigidity, bradykinesia, tremor, and postural instability. What is the next step in management?

1727. A patient with Parkinson’s disease has developed dystonia that is not improving with treatment. What is the next step?

1728. A scenario of a patient with parkinsonian features and vertical gaze palsy is most likely indicative of which condition?

1729. In a scenario about a patient with parkinsonism, urinary symptoms, and falls, what would you find on MRI?

1730. A patient presents with frequent falls and vertical gaze palsy. Brain MRI shows tectal atrophy. What is the likely diagnosis?

1731. In patients with progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP), what symptom does L-dopa primarily treat?

1732. Regarding essential palatal myoclonus, which of the following statements is true?

1733. An approximately 70-year-old male patient has had recurrent falls and gait imbalance over the last 6 months. On examination, he has a masked face, vertical gaze palsy, retrocollis, and bradykinesia. MRI showed a hummingbird sign. What is the diagnosis?

1734. A patient presented with recurrent unilateral facial twitching, mostly triggered by anxiety, what is the treatment of choice?

1735. A patient with Parkinson's disease presents with increased dyskinesia and parkinsonism. He is on Levodopa 100/25 mg every 6 hours. What should be done next?

1736. An elderly patient with a history of coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) two years ago presents with a six-month history of frequent falls and restricted upward gaze. What is the most likely diagnosis?

1737. Which condition is characterized by chorea, cognitive decline, and behavioral changes?

1738. What is the most common cause of hereditary chorea?

1739. A 61‐year‐old male with a 2‐year history of limb tremors and bradykinesia has postural instability and vertical jaw limitation on exam. What is the likely diagnosis?

1740. A patient with essential tremor and asthma, what is the treatment?

1741. Q87. A patient with recurrent unilateral eye twitching and sometimes mouth twitching, with no history of facial (Bell's) palsy, what is the treatment?

1742. In a case of corticobasal degeneration, where is the involvement seen on MRI?

1743. A patient with Parkinson's Disease (PD) experiences excessive sleep and motor fluctuations. What medication should be considered?

1744. Q134. Oculopalatal myoclonus is caused by a lesion involving which pathway?

1745. A scenario suggests a diagnosis of dyt11. What type of myoclonus is associated with this condition, especially since her father has a similar condition that improves with alcohol?

1746. In a patient with Parkinson's disease experiencing motor function issues and dyskinesia, what is the recommended adjustment to treatment?

1747. A patient with Parkinson’s disease for 7 years presents with severe disabling dyskinesia on medical therapy and mild cognitive impairment. What is the recommended treatment?

1748. A patient with Parkinson's disease presents with peak-dose dyskinesia. What medication is commonly used to manage this condition?

1749. An elderly patient has a history of frequent falls, limited vertical gaze, and parkinsonian features. What is the diagnosis?

1750. A female patient reports throat discomfort and a “clicking tinnitus” that subsides during her sleep. On exam, there is an objective clicking sound, and otherwise, her exam is normal. What is the diagnosis?

1751. A patient with Parkinson’s disease is experiencing motor function issues and dyskinesia. What is the most appropriate adjustment to their medication?

1752. For a patient with orthostatic tremor who is not tolerating clonazepam, what is the second-line treatment option?

1753. A 34-year-old female was brought by her family due to a history of abnormal movements of her hands and legs, and difficulty in eating due to sustained contraction of her mouth. Her father had the same history and died early. On examination, she was found to have orolingual dystonia. What should be done next to reach a diagnosis?

1754. Q81. In Progressive Supranuclear Palsy (PSP), which symptom will improve with treatment?

1755. A 62-year-old male has two episodes of asymmetric tremors in the left arm. What investigation should be done to determine the diagnosis?

1756. A patient with diabetes mellitus presents with tremor at rest, during action, and with kinetic movements. What type of tremor is most likely?

1757. A female patient presents with bilateral upper limb dystonia that improves with alcohol. Which of the following treatments is most appropriate?

1758. Regarding enhanced physiological tremor, which statement is correct?

1759. A 14-year-old girl, medically free, has episodes of jerky movements of the right upper limb followed by dystonia with posturing, which occurs suddenly when she turns while running. There is also a family history of migraine. What is the most likely diagnosis?

1760. What is the best treatment for peak dose dyskinesia in patients with Parkinson’s disease?

1761. A Parkinson’s patient takes Levodopa/Carbidopa 250/25 mg QID and is complaining of wearing off in terms of pain and bradykinesia 30 minutes before the next dose. What is the management of his symptoms?

1762. A patient with Parkinson’s disease presents with increased dyskinesia and parkinsonism. He is on Levodopa 100/25 mg every 6 hours. What should be done next?

1763. Q110. Which of the following statements is true regarding symptomatic palatal myoclonus?

1764. What is the benefit of deep brain stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus?

1765. Deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the globus pallidus interna (GPi) may be more effective than DBS of the subthalamic nucleus (STN) in treating which of the following features of Parkinson’s disease?

1766. Q138. What is the next investigation for a patient with orthostatic tremor?

1767. A patient with idiopathic Parkinson disease, complaining of hallucinations, has mild rigidity, bradykinesia, and minimal dyskinesia. What medication should be discontinued?

1768. A typical case of orthostatic tremor is presented. What is the recommended treatment?

1769. Q169. What is the recommended treatment for a patient with Parkinson's Disease (PD) who has features of Restless Legs Syndrome (RLS)?

1770. A male patient, 85 years old, presents with gait freezing, cognitive changes, bradykinesia, and urinary incontinence. MRI shows moderate ventriculomegaly and mild brain atrophy. What is the most appropriate management?

1771. Q107. A patient who works as a chef has been complaining of a months-long history of upper limb resting tremor and rigidity. During the examination, he was found to have unilateral bradykinesia and resting tremor. The patient also mentioned he has a gambling problem. What will you do?

1772. Q112. Which of the following Parkinsonian disorders commonly presents with asymmetrical features?

1773. Q456. A female presents with action and intention tremor, dropping things, and a slightly asymmetric family history. What is the most likely diagnosis?

1774. What is the treatment for hemifacial spasm?

1775. In a scenario of orthostatic tremor not responding to clonazepam, which of the following is a second-line treatment?

1776. A 70-year-old male presents with a history of left arm dystonia, bradykinesia, and myoclonus. He moves his head to look to the sides. What is the diagnosis?

1777. A 60-year-old male presents with recent onset of progressive difficulty using the right hand. Clinically, he is found to have right hand myoclonus, rigidity, and cortical sensory loss, with no history of falls. What is the most likely diagnosis?

1778. Q351. A patient with tremor-predominant Parkinson’s disease on levodopa/carbidopa (LD/CD) 250/25 mg every 4 hours is experiencing “off” symptoms 2.5 hours before the next dose with peak-dose dyskinesia. What is the next best step in management?

1779. A 50-year-old male came with a history suggestive of Parkinson’s disease (rigidity, tremors, bradykinesia). What is the next step in management?

1780. What type of focal dystonia improves when touching the face?

1781. A 14-year-old girl, medically free, has episodes of jerky movements of the right upper limb followed by dystonia with posturing, which occur suddenly when she turns while running. There is also a family history of migraine. What is the most likely diagnosis?

1782. A 70-year-old female with a known case of Parkinson’s disease has had stable symptoms for the last 6 years. She now reports a “wear-off” effect of her medication after 1.5 hours and peak-onset dyskinesia. She is taking Sinemet 250/25 every 4 hours and selegiline. What is the next step in management?

1783. What is the treatment for Sydenham chorea?

1784. Which of the following symptoms is the most common side effect of botulinum toxin injection for cervical dystonia?

1785. A 30-year-old male with a history of action tremor presents with symmetrical tremors that improve with alcohol and have a frequency of 12 Hz. What is the likely diagnosis?

1786. An elderly patient presents with imbalance that improves with walking. On examination, you find gait hesitancy that improves with walking. What should be the next step?

1787. Which of the following describes orthostatic tremor?

1788. A 42-year-old female has gait difficulty and feels very dizzy, but when she wakes, she no longer has dizziness. An EMG shows subtle abnormalities. What is the best treatment for her?

1789. A patient presents with lower limb tremor that starts when she stands up and does not improve when she starts walking. She mentions that she has a relative with hand tremor when he holds the newspaper. EMG shows orthostatic tremor. What will you give her?

1790. Q227. Which of the following is most likely to be associated with essential palatal myoclonus?

1791. Q24. Thalamotomy in Parkinson’s Disease (PD) is expected to improve which of the following symptoms?

1792. A man who presented with abnormal movement (from a psychiatry hospital) and is unable to sit still. On exam, he is fidgeting and moving back and forth, constantly crossing and uncrossing his legs. What is the diagnosis?

1793. In a patient with Progressive Supranuclear Palsy (PSP), which symptom is most likely to improve with levodopa treatment?

1794. A patient with schizophrenia is unable to sit and is on antipsychotic medication. What is the likely diagnosis?

1795. A 16-year-old female patient presented with jerking movements that improved with wine. Her father has the same symptoms. What is the diagnosis?

1796. An elderly patient presents with imbalance that improves with walking. On examination, you find gait hesitancy that improves with walking. What is the treatment? (case of Orthostatic tremor)

1797. Levodopa

1798. In Huntington's disease, how many gene repeats are typically present?

1799. A 35-year-old male presented to the clinic with complaints of atonic jerks at age 10. He has a history of dystonia, depression, chorea, and ataxia. There is no family history of a similar condition. What is the likely diagnosis?

1800. What is the site of deep brain stimulation (DBS) for tremor?

1801. A patient has dystonia of the lower limbs and a positive family history of similar symptoms. She was given Levodopa before and had a significant response. What is the treatment? (case of DYT5)

1802. In the scenario of orthostatic tremor, what diagnostic tests should be performed?

1803. Q20. A case scenario of a patient suggestive of Corticobasal Degeneration (CBD) is presented, with a hint of abnormal hand movements. What MRI finding is expected?

1804. A Parkinson's patient on medication developed wearing off phenomena; what is the mechanism?

1805. In refractory essential tremor, which structure is the target for deep brain stimulation (DBS)?

1806. Q121. (Source: Part I 2023mcqs.txt) A young lady presented to the outpatient clinic with a history of abnormal movement in the form of sudden abduction at the shoulder and tonic posturing of her hand noticed while writing. She has a family history of her father and brother with a similar condition. Which of the following is associated with this condition (Myoclonic dystonia)?

1807. In a scenario about essential myoclonus relieved by alcohol, which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?

1808. In a patient with Parkinson's Disease (PD) on Sinemet, who has shown improvement in motor control and dyskinesia after adding pramipexole, but is experiencing cognitive impairment and mood changes, what is the best course of action?

1809. In a patient with progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) receiving Sinemet, which symptom is likely to improve?

1810. What is the male-to-female ratio in the inheritance of paroxysmal kinesigenic dyskinesia?

1811. What is the treatment for Sydenham chorea?

1812. A 16-year-old boy presents with dystonic posturing and myoclonic jerks predominantly affecting his upper limbs. The symptoms markedly improve after a glass of wine, and his father reports having similar movements since adolescence. What is the most appropriate initial treatment?

1813. Multiple System Atrophy (MSA)

1814. Q88. A patient with a known case of Parkinson's disease on levodopa/carbidopa describes having recurrent tremor and bradykinesia before the next dose. What is the description of this phenomenon?

1815. Q98. A young patient with lip biting and face and limb dystonia has a blood smear showing abnormal RBCs with thorny projections. What is the diagnosis?

1816. Q12. A young patient presents with dystonia and myoclonus. What characteristic is likely associated with this condition?

1817. Q54. A patient with typical orthostatic tremor is being treated. What is the recommended treatment?

1818. What is the diagnosis for a clear case of Parkinson’s Disease (PD)?

1819. Which of the following is a common trigger for paroxysmal kinesigenic dyskinesia?

1820. A patient with Parkinson's disease on multiple agents has developed hallucinations. What is the first step in management?

1821. A patient with essential tremor and asthma, what is the treatment?

1822. A 32-year-old female with a history of Parkinson’s disease presents with worsening symptoms, including resting tremor. She has had remarkable improvement with L-dopa. What is the next step in management?

1823. A female patient presents with a hand tremor that improves with alcohol, and there is a family history of similar symptoms. What is the most likely diagnosis?

1824. A female patient has a tremor, and her father also has a tremor. The father reports that his tremor improves with wine. What is the diagnosis?

1825. A patient with Parkinson's disease on Sinemet every 4 hours and Selegiline complains of wearing off 2.5 hours before his next dose and peak dose dyskinesia. What is the best management option?

1826. A 30-year-old child with dopa-responsive dystonia started with foot dystonia and progressed to generalized symptoms with diurnal variation. What is the diagnosis?

1827. A young female patient presents to the clinic with head tremor and neck pain. On exam, she has torticollis and reports improvement of her symptoms when she faces the wall. What is the most accurate statement?

1828. A 30-year-old female presents with parkinsonism and worsening dystonia. She had a similar presentation 10 years ago and improved with levodopa. What should you give her?

1829. A 68-year-old male presented to the clinic due to a history of recurrent falls. He has a history of CABG 6 months ago. Physical examination showed limited vertical gaze, bradykinesia, and an unsteady gait. Brain MRI showed generalized atrophy with ex-vacuo and atrophy of the midbrain tectum. What is the most likely diagnosis?

1830. Palatal Myoclonus with continuous ear sound in a young male. What is the most likely explanation?

1831. A case presents with axial rigidity and parkinsonism, and the patient has upgaze palsy. What is the likely diagnosis?

1832. Q145. A Parkinson's patient on levodopa/carbidopa 25/250 Q4 and selegiline for 7 years has started to experience rigidity and wearing off symptoms for two and a half hours. What is the best management for peak dose dyskinesia?

1833. A Parkinson's disease patient on Sinemet every 4 hours and selegiline complains of wearing off 2.5 hours before his next dose and peak dose dyskinesia. What is the best course of action?

1834. Q158. Corticobasal Degeneration (CBD)

1835. A young female has recurrent muscle (or neck) spasms triggered by sudden neck movement. What is the treatment?

1836. A patient with Parkinson's disease and dystonia is not improving with treatment. What is the most appropriate next step?

1837. A 70-year-old male patient with a history of Parkinson’s disease for 10 years, who has been responding well to levodopa, presents with orthostatic hypotension and frequent falls. What is the most likely diagnosis?

1838. A male patient presents with parkinsonism and swallowing difficulty, and MRI shows atrophy of the midbrain. What is the most likely diagnosis?

1839. A patient with Parkinson’s Disease for 6 years on Sinemet and experiencing depressed mood, changes in issues, and worsening dyskinesia also shows slowness and bradykinesia. What should be done?

1840. A patient with orthostatic tremor not tolerating clonazepam, what is the treatment?

1841. A 17-year-old boy has developed multiple verbal and motor tics since the age of 11. What is the diagnosis?

1842. In a patient with Progressive Supranuclear Palsy (PSP) receiving Sinemet, which symptom is likely to improve?

1843. In a patient with hemifacial spasm, what is the most common treatment option?

1844. An elderly patient presented with abnormal limb movement. He described that his left upper limb seems to move involuntarily. He reported some memory issues. On examination, he exhibited involuntary left upper limb movement and visuospatial dissociation. What is the most likely diagnosis?

1845. A 16-year-old had dystonia that improved with wine, and her father has the same symptoms. What is the treatment?

1846. A patient with orthostatic tremor not tolerating clonazepam, what is the treatment?

1847. A patient presents with dystonia, tremor, and Parkinsonism. MRI shows bilateral basal ganglia and brainstem hyperintensity. What treatment would you consider for Wilson's disease?

1848. Q22. What is the appropriate management for a Parkinson’s disease patient on Sinemet 5 times daily who experiences wearing off 30 minutes before the next dose?

1849. A patient with orthostatic tremor is not tolerating clonazepam. What is the second-line treatment?

1850. In a patient with essential tremor and asthma, which medication is commonly used?

1851. A Parkinson's disease patient on levodopa/Carbidopa every 4 hours experiences reoccurrence of rigidity and tremors half an hour before the next dose. What is this phenomenon called?

1852. Which treatment is commonly used for paroxysmal exertion-induced dyskinesia?

1853. A 70-year-old male patient has a history of urinary retention, syncope, and memory impairment. He later developed laryngeal stridor. MRI findings are pending. What is the most likely diagnosis?

1854. A 70-year-old male patient presents with recurrent falls and gait imbalance over the last 6 months. On examination, he has a masked face, vertical gaze palsy, retrocollis, and bradykinesia. MRI findings are pending. What is the most likely diagnosis?

1855. What is the first-line treatment for Sydenham chorea?

1856. A 67-year-old man with a 3-year history of Parkinson disease has had increasingly distressing problems with visual and auditory hallucinations and very severe and disturbing delusions. Which of the following medications is US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved for treatment of these symptoms in Parkinson disease?

1857. Q8. A patient exhibits palatal abnormal movements that are fast, rhythmic, and persist during sleep. What is the likely diagnosis?

1858. What is the typical age of onset for paroxysmal nonkinesigenic dyskinesia?

1859. Pathology showed Lewy bodies. What is the diagnosis?

1860. A patient with schizophrenia on antipsychotics presents with orolingual dystonia. What is the diagnosis?

1861. A 30-year-old female patient presents with parkinsonism and worsening dystonia. She had a similar presentation 10 years ago and improved with levodopa. What should you prescribe for her today?

1862. What is the PET finding in CBDG?

1863. In a girl with Sydenham chorea, what laboratory test is indicated?

1864. Q189. A girl presents in childhood with progressive, isolated limb dystonia and no parkinsonian features. Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?

1865. What is the recommended treatment for cervical dystonia?

1866. What is the pathology associated with Multiple System Atrophy (MSA)?

1867. A patient diagnosed with Parkinson’s disease 6 years ago presents with troublesome dyskinesia and is currently managed on levodopa. What is the next step in management?

1868. In a scenario involving essential tremor and asthma treatment, which medication is commonly used?

1869. What is the treatment for hemifacial spasm?

1870. Best to explain orthostatic tremor:

1871. A 70-year-old man with Parkinson’s disease has become progressively more demented over the past year. For the past 2 months, he has been having more frequent hallucinations, which makes him more agitated and violent. He is on Levodopa/Carbidopa and Rivastigmine. What is the appropriate treatment?

1872. Q99. A young female has a Kayser–Fleischer ring on slit lamp exam and presents with parkinsonism and dystonia, what is the treatment?

1873. A young girl with PKAN presents with dystonia and an MRI showing central hyperintensity. What is the diagnosis?

1874. In the same scenario of paroxysmal kinesigenic dyskinesia, what is the most appropriate management option?

1875. A patient with Parkinson’s Disease for 7 years on Sinemet has started to wean off the medication. What is the most likely reason for this?

1876. Q191. A 46-year-old female patient presented with jerky movements that improved with wine. Her father has the same symptoms. What is the diagnosis?

1877. A patient with Parkinson’s disease on pramipexole develops visual hallucinations. What is the next best step in management?

1878. In a typical scenario of left hemifacial spasm, what is the recommended treatment?

1879. In a patient with parkinsonism symptoms not responding to Sinemet, which condition is characterized by dystonia and abnormal movements?

1880. In Progressive Supranuclear Palsy (PSP), which symptom will improve with treatment?

1881. A female with abnormal movements in the form of arching back had an EEG that was normal during the event. What is the most likely diagnosis?

1882. In a case of an elderly patient with symptoms suggestive of Multiple System Atrophy (MSA), which of the following is the most common presenting symptom?

1883. A patient presents with typical orthostatic tremor. What is the treatment?

1884. A 72-year-old woman is brought to the clinic by her family due to trouble walking. She reports feeling unsteady when she stands to walk and is scared of falling, but she can walk normally afterward. What is the most likely diagnosis?

1885. Q131. Who is more likely to benefit from dopamine agonists compared to levodopa?

1886. A patient presents with hand stiffness, usually during writing. Her father had the same symptoms. What is the diagnosis? (case of DYT 11)

1887. An elderly patient presented with peak dose dyskinesia that is bothering him and affecting his daily living activities. He is a known case of Parkinson's disease and is maintained on levodopa/carbidopa four times a day. He is doing well otherwise but has a recurrence of the Parkinsonian features just 30 minutes before the next dose. Which of the following is the appropriate management?

1888. A patient exhibits on-off palatal movements accompanied by click sounds, which resolve with sleep. What is the likely condition?

1889. In a clear scenario of essential palatal myoclonus, what is the recommended investigation?

1890. A case of essential tremor in a young law student with bronchial asthma is presented. What is the most appropriate treatment?

1891. A patient with no significant medical history experiences episodes of jerky movements of the right upper limb followed by dystonia with posturing, which occur suddenly when she turns while running. What is the most likely diagnosis?

1892. In a scenario of hemifacial spasm, what is the recommended treatment?

1893. In a case of spontaneous generalized chorea, which of the following options describes the phenomenology of the condition?

1894. A question describes symptomatic palatal myoclonus and asks what to do (not improved with sleep). What is the next step?

1895. Q154. A patient on metoclopramide developed dystonia, what is the treatment?

1896. A case of essential tremor is noted with a frequency of 6 Hz that improves with alcohol and has a family history. What is the likely diagnosis?

1897. In a scenario suggestive of Wilson's disease with Parkinsonism and dystonia, what is the recommended treatment?

1898. A 67-year-old patient known to have Parkinson's disease presents with sleep disorders. Which sleep disorder is most likely to improve with dopamine agonist treatment?

1899. In a patient with Tourette's syndrome and ADHD, which medication is appropriate for treatment (Clonidine was not one of the options)?

1900. Q459. What imaging finding is associated with corticobasal degeneration (CBD)?

1901. In a patient with corticobasal degeneration (CBD), what would a PET scan most likely reveal?

1902. Inclusion with alpha synucleinopathy contains:

1903. What is the treatment for a patient with Parkinson's Disease (PD) who has features of Restless Legs Syndrome (RLS)?

1904. A patient presents with mild parkinsonism over a few months, a history of urinary incontinence for several years, and mild cognitive impairment. Imaging reveals mild cerebral atrophy with moderate ventriculomegaly. What is the next best step in management?

1905. What is the best way to confirm the diagnosis of synucleinopathy?

1906. A Parkinson's patient came with increased hallucinations and memory loss; what is the treatment?

1907. A patient with Parkinson’s disease and excessive sleep with motor fluctuations is experiencing difficulties. What medication should be considered?

1908. For a patient with rubral tremor associated with multiple sclerosis, what is the recommended treatment?

1909. Q85. In a case scenario of hemiballismus, what is the localization?

1910. Q490. Which of the following disorders is associated with Parkinson's disease treated with dopamine agonists?

1911. Which is a Tauopathy?

1912. In a case of familial Parkinson disease, which gene is associated with autosomal dominant inheritance and is one of the most common causes of familial Parkinson's disease?

1913. In a scenario suggestive of Wilson’s disease with Kayser-Fleischer ring and MRI features, what is the next step to confirm the diagnosis?

1914. For a patient with dyt11, what is the first-line treatment if the condition improves with alcohol?

1915. A pediatric patient had mental retardation, tremor, and ataxia; his sister had ovarian insufficiency. What is the typical imaging finding?

1916. A middle-aged lady presents with problems with attention, tremor, and progressive ataxia. What is the most likely diagnosis?

1917. A 34-year-old female is brought in by her family due to a history of abnormal movements of her hands and legs, as well as difficulty eating due to sustained contractions of her mouth. Her father had a similar history and died early. On examination, she is found to have orolingual dystonia. What should be done next to reach a diagnosis?

1918. Q160. A 50-year-old male patient has a history of cognitive impairment for 6 months, accompanied by depression and abnormal movements. His father died at the age of 60 with a history suggestive of Huntington's disease. What is the gene associated with this condition?

1919. Q153. A young man with orolingual dystonia, associated with cognitive deficit, has no family history. What should be investigated?

1920. Q46. What will confirm the diagnosis of Wilson’s disease?

1921. A case of Huntington’s disease shows CT brain imaging with head of caudate atrophy. What is the expected number of CAG repeats in this patient?

1922. A case presents with ataxia, slow saccades, and optic atrophy. Which type of spinocerebellar ataxia is most likely indicated?

1923. Q156. Hallervorden-Spatz syndrome is associated with which gene?

1924. A patient presents with progressive cerebellar ataxia, optic atrophy, sensorineural hearing loss, and slow saccadic eye movements; what is the most likely diagnosis?

1925. A child presented with dystonia and Parkinsonism. Brain MRI reported bilateral hyperintensity in the basal ganglia. What is the most likely diagnosis?

1926. A patient with features of Friedreich Ataxia is asked about the associated gene. What is the gene involved?

1927. A patient presents with muscle weakness, optic atrophy, hearing loss, and a family history of a similar condition. Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?

1928. In a girl with Sydenham chorea, which test is most relevant to confirm the diagnosis?

1929. The most common familial gene mutation associated with Parkinson's disease is:

1930. A patient with a known case of diabetes mellitus presents with axial and appendicular ataxia and has a conduction block. What is the likely gene mutation associated with Friedreich's ataxia?

1931. Q167. A 16-year-old female presented with oculomotor apraxia and ataxia; she had normal immunoglobulin and high AFP. What is the diagnosis?

1932. A 50-year-old female presents with complaints of imbalance and tremor. MRI shows bilateral hyperintense cerebellar peduncles. What is the most likely diagnosis?

1933. A 75-year-old patient with progressive cognitive decline, chorea, and ataxia has no children, and his father died at age 65. What is the most likely diagnosis?

1934. What is the most common familial gene associated with Parkinson's disease?

1935. Dystonia with myoclonus is most commonly associated with which genetic mutation?

1936. Q22. A 50-year-old female presents with recent intention tremor and memory problems, with MRI findings of cerebellar peduncle changes. What is the likely diagnosis?

1937. In a case of Wilson's disease with Kayser-Fleischer ring and pyramidal signs, which test confirms the diagnosis?

1938. In a scenario of a girl with dystonia and no Parkinsonism features, which genetic mutation is most likely associated?

1939. Which genetic mutation is associated with dystonia accompanied by myoclonus?

1940. A patient with a history of abnormal movements and falls, which interfere with his daily routine, is experiencing behavioral and mood changes. What trinucleotide repeat expansion would you expect to find?

1941. What is the recommended treatment for Wilson's disease during pregnancy?

1942. In the case of Sydenham's chorea, what is the recommended action?

1943. A 78-year-old female presents with ataxia for one year and mild cognitive impairment. MRI showed cerebellar peduncle hyperintensities. What is the most likely diagnosis?

1944. An 11-year-old boy comes to the office with his parents because of a 14-month history of motor and vocal tics… Which of the following is the most appropriate description of this patient’s symptoms?

1945. A patient was in a psychiatric hospital and developed abnormal movements. What is the likely diagnosis?

1946. A young female has Kayser-Fleischer rings on slit lamp exam and presents with parkinsonism and dystonia. What is the treatment?

1947. Q14. Sydenham chorea

1948. A 9-year-old boy, previously healthy, develops abnormal movements of the upper and lower limbs with gait instability. The family reports a 6-week history of runny nose. What is the most likely diagnosis?

1949. A patient known to have psychiatric symptoms on antipsychotic medication for a long time presented with abnormal movements of the face and tongue. What is the diagnosis?

1950. A 9-year-old boy has a history of 14 months of vocal and motor tics, along with a history of OCD. What is the most likely diagnosis?

1951. A 12-year-old male patient had a runny nose two weeks ago. He presents with abnormal movements, and a video is attached for reference. What is the likely diagnosis?

1952. In a clear scenario of vascular Parkinson's disease, what should be done?

1953. In the management of Tic disorders and ADHD, which medication is commonly prescribed?

1954. What test is associated with Sydenham chorea in a girl?

1955. A patient who was in a psychiatric hospital developed abnormal movements. What is the most likely diagnosis?

1956. An elderly female patient wakes up with abnormal left arm and leg involuntary movements. Before she slept, she had no complaints. She presented to the ER, where a CT brain was normal, and an MRI stroke protocol was done. Later, the involuntary movement improved. Where do you expect to find the abnormality in the MRI?

1957. A patient with schizophrenia is unable to sit and is on antipsychotic medication. What is the likely diagnosis?

1958. A patient with schizophrenia on antipsychotics presents with involuntary, sustained contractions of the tongue and jaw (orolingual dystonia). What is the diagnosis?

1959. A patient with Parkinson's disease presents with hallucinations and forgetfulness. What is the most appropriate management option?

1960. A patient presents with blunted affect and rigidity after carbon monoxide exposure. What is the most likely diagnosis?

1961. What treatment is indicated for a young female with excessive daytime sleepiness, hyperphagia, and nighttime sleep issues, with no clear features of narcolepsy?

1962. Restless Legs Syndrome (RLS) is most commonly associated with which of the following?

1963. Q70. A 65-year-old male presents with disturbed nocturnal sleep. His wife states that he has been shouting and lashing out violently during sleep. What is the best treatment?

1964. A case scenario of a diabetic patient with symptoms suggestive of Restless Legs Syndrome (RLS). What is the next step in management?

1965. A 45-year-old male presents with poor sleeping and recent mood changes, early awakening as reported by his wife. What is true regarding his treatment options?

1966. Excessive daytime sleep and an increase in eating habits can be treated with which of the following?

1967. Pregnancy is a risk factor for which of the following?

1968. Q35. A patient is impulsive and a drug seeker with a scenario of Restless Legs Syndrome (RLS). What is the recommended treatment?

1969. Q77. Excessive daytime sleep and an increase in eating habits may indicate which condition?

1970. Excessive daytime sleep and increasing eating habits may be treated with which of the following?

1971. Pregnancy is a risk factor for which of the following?

1972. A patient presents with recurrent episodes of excessive daytime sleepiness (hypersomnolence) and increased appetite (hyperphagia). Which of the following treatments is most appropriate to improve daytime alertness and reduce these symptoms?

1973. Which of the following is a primary sleep-related movement disorder commonly exacerbated during pregnancy?

1974. Q67. A patient came with symptoms of restlessness during nighttime, improving when she rubs her feet together (restless leg syndrome). What will you do?

1975. A patient with a history of visual hallucinations and inability to move from the bed, along with frequent episodes of falling asleep, presents for evaluation. What is the likely diagnosis?

1976. A 43-year-old man presents with complaints of unrefreshing sleep, excessive daytime sleepiness, and snoring at night. What is the best next step in management?

1977. A patient has difficulty sleeping and is lying in bed looking at the clock. What is the next best treatment option for this sleep issue?

1978. Which of the following conditions, among primary sleep-related movement disorders, is known to be exacerbated by pregnancy?

1979. A child presents with a history of falling and loss of tone usually after laughing. What is the most likely diagnosis?

1980. Q36. With destruction of the anterior hypothalamic nucleus, you will find:

1981. Q30. Focuses on the management principles of insomnia, potentially secondary to depression.

1982. Pregnancy is a risk factor for which of the following conditions?

1983. A 45-year-old male presents with poor sleeping and recent mood changes, with early awakening as reported by his wife. Which of the following is true?

1984. A 45-year-old male is experiencing poor sleep and recent mood changes, with early awakening as reported by his wife. What is true regarding his condition?

1985. A patient is sleeping and exhibits aggressive movements in the legs while sleeping, and he used to walk around at night. What is the most likely diagnosis?

1986. Tests knowledge of potential biological/neurophysiological correlates of insomnia/depression.

1987. A patient with narcolepsy is treated with which of the following medications?

1988. A patient is sleeping all day and binge eating with increased weight. What medication would you consider?

1989. A 45-year-old male with poor sleeping and recent mood changes, early awakening reported by his wife. What is true?

1990. A woman presents with her husband, who complains of her uncomfortable sensations in the legs at night that usually improve with movement. What factor is likely to worsen these movements?

1991. Pregnancy is a risk factor for which of the following conditions?

1992. Q124. Pregnancy is a risk factor for which of the following conditions?

1993. What is the sleep disorder associated with Parkinson's disease?

1994. A patient presents with excessive daytime sleepiness and increased eating habits. What is the first-line treatment?

1995. A known case of migraine, a female patient in her 1st trimester, came to the ER with a headache. What is the treatment?

1996. Q105. Which of the following characteristics is associated with pain in glossopharyngeal neuralgia?

1997. A pregnant patient at 12 weeks GA with migraine came with status migrainosus. What is the management?

1998. In a scenario of SUNA (Short-lasting Unilateral Neuralgiform headache attacks with conjunctival injection and tearing), what is the first-line treatment?

1999. A patient presents with a small area of headache associated with hair loss. What is the most appropriate treatment?

2000. What is the first-line treatment for glossopharyngeal neuralgia?

2001. A patient presents with unilateral headache on a daily basis associated with ptosis and lacrimation. What is the diagnosis?

2002. A patient recently had a baby delivered by C-section one day ago and came to the ED with a headache that increases while sitting and coughing. Brain MRI showed normal results, and the neurological exam was normal. What will you do next?

2003. Q54. A migraine patient with daily persistent headache, who used to take daily triptans and NSAIDs, what is the next management step?

2004. A young female patient, known to have migraine controlled on medications, now presents with unilateral headache associated with lacrimation and conjunctival injection, lasting for less than 2 minutes and resolving completely. It occurs up to 40 times per day, and she is completely asymptomatic between the attacks. Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?

2005. Q133. Which of the following features would be most supportive of a diagnosis of medication-overuse headache (MOH) in a patient?

2006. Patient came with tongue pain and paresthesia, radiating to the neck, increased with neck movement; what is the diagnosis?

2007. A pregnant patient presents with a severe migraine attack, similar to her previous migraine attacks. What is the appropriate management?

2008. Q65. A 35-year-old woman presents with a headache, describing 10 episodes a day of sharp pain over the left eye, lasting about 5 minutes each, which cause her to sit or lie quietly until the attacks pass. Which of the following autonomic phenomena is most commonly associated with this type of headache?

2009. A male patient presents with headache, congestion, tearing, with a duration of 15–30 minutes, occurring 5 times per day, always on the same side. His history includes pain provoked by touching the face. What is the most likely diagnosis?

2010. In the same case scenario as above, what is the recommended treatment?

2011. A young lady post uneventful delivery by cesarean section came with a history of positional headache that worsens with standing and improves with lying on her back for more than 2 weeks. MRI of the brain was done (image attached). Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?

2012. In a scenario of intracranial hypotension not responding to routine measures, what is the next step?

2013. In a case of a headache attributed to trigeminal neuralgia, what is the best treatment option?

2014. A 10-week pregnant woman presents with severe acute migraine. Which of the following is the recommended first-line treatment?

2015. Question 180. In a scenario of glossopharyngeal neuralgia, what should be done next?

2016. A 35-year-old man with well-controlled migraine headaches says he sometimes takes pregabalin on weekends to help him relax and requests a new prescription. What is the most appropriate next step?

2017. A boy presents with a headache that is more pronounced in the morning and is associated with nausea and vomiting. What should be done next?

2018. A male patient reports shock-like electric sensations in half of his face multiple times per day, and he avoids brushing and shaving. What is the likely diagnosis?

2019. In a scenario of trigeminal neuralgia, what is needed to reach the diagnosis?

2020. A patient presents with severe periorbital episodic headache lasting 5 minutes. What is the most common associated feature?

2021. A patient has irritable bowel syndrome, is obese, and has migraine. What would you prescribe as a prophylactic agent?

2022. A patient with migraine underwent a brain MRI as a routine workup for chronic headache, which showed white matter lesions. What is the most appropriate action?

2023. Triptans can be used in patients with which of the following conditions?

2024. In the evaluation of a patient suspected of suffering from glossopharyngeal neuralgia, which of the following is important to inquire about?

2025. A patient has a severe headache with typical migraine features and has had previous episodes during menstruation. What is the most likely diagnosis?

2026. In a case with continuous headache and episodes of more intense headache, which treatment is indicated?

2027. A boy presents with headaches that are worse in the morning and associated with nausea and vomiting. What is the next step in management?

2028. A male patient presents with lacinating pain lasting for seconds, and MRI shows SCA compression over the trigeminal nerve. What is the recommended treatment?

2029. A patient experiences a visual aura for 10–20 minutes followed by a headache. What is the most likely diagnosis?

2030. Which of the following neurotransmitters has a role in the pathogenesis of migraine headache?

2031. A patient came for a third opinion, diagnosed with Cluster Headache and another trigeminal autonomic cephalgia. How can you distinguish between them?

2032. Which medication is considered safe for use in the 1st and 2nd trimester of pregnancy for treating migraine?

2033. Patient came with tongue pain and paresthesia, radiating to the neck, increased with neck movement. What is the diagnosis?

2034. A young lady post uneventful delivery by cesarean section came with a history of positional headache that worsens with standing and improves with lying on her back for more than 2 weeks. MRI of the brain was done (image attached). Which of the following is the next step in management?

2035. According to the International Classification of Headache Disorders 3rd edition (ICHD-3), how many attacks are required for the diagnosis of short-lasting unilateral neuralgiform headache attacks?

2036. In a patient with occipital seizures and migraine with aura, which feature is in favor of a visual aura?

2037. A patient came with a history of severe unilateral headache lasting less than 5 minutes, stabbing in nature, associated with tearing and conjunctival injection. Which of the following is the best treatment for him?

2038. A patient presents with recurrent attacks of headache lasting 4 days, accompanied by ptosis and ophthalmoplegia. What is the most likely diagnosis?

2039. Which of the following statements is true regarding medication overuse headache?

2040. Q116. In a scenario of nummular headache, what is the recommended treatment?

2041. A patient with migraine headache has white matter changes that are not typical for multiple sclerosis lesions. What is the most appropriate management?

2042. Which medication is absolutely contraindicated in pregnancy for the treatment of migraine?

2043. In a scenario of intracranial hypotension, which of the following is the most common MRI brain finding?

2044. A patient experiences unilateral severe periorbital headache with autonomic features lasting 10–15 minutes, occurring up to 10 times per day. What is the most appropriate treatment?

2045. What is the first-line treatment for migraine in pregnancy?

2046. A young patient presents with trigeminal neuralgia. What is the next best step in management?

2047. Prior to prescribing oral contraceptive pills, evaluating for potential hypercoagulable states is most necessary in which of the following populations?

2048. How does pediatric migraine compare to adult migraine?

2049. In a scenario of hemicrania continua, what is the first line treatment?

2050. A male patient has a history of headaches that consistently awaken him from sleep. What is the most appropriate treatment?

2051. Which branch of the trigeminal nerve is most commonly affected in trigeminal neuralgia?

2052. What is the attack duration for SUNCT?

2053. A female with migraine occurring once a month underwent a brain MRI, which showed two small white matter non-specific lesions in each hemisphere. What should be done next?

2054. A female patient presents with a headache and occasional blurring of vision when leaning forward. She has papilledema but no visual field defects or decrease in visual acuity. This presentation is suggestive of idiopathic intracranial hypertension (IIH). What is the most appropriate treatment?

2055. A 40-year-old woman is seen in consultation for chronic daily headaches. She takes acetaminophen twice daily and oral sumatriptan 3 to 4 times per week. A medication-overuse headache (MOH) is suspected. Which of the following associated features would be most supportive of a diagnosis of MOH in this patient?

2056. A scenario describes a patient with basilar migraine and vertigo. What is the diagnosis?

2057. A 45-year-old man experiences a very severe, sudden-onset headache immediately after orgasm (“thunderclap headache”), which then gradually improves over the next hour. What is the next step in management?

2058. Q61. What is the risk of stroke in patients with migraine?

2059. Q102. A patient with headache and lancinating pain in the face, what should be done next?

2060. A patient with migraine on amitriptyline and sumatriptan became pregnant. What should be done?

2061. Q112. A known case of migraine in a female patient who is pregnant in her first trimester came to the ER with a headache; what is the treatment?

2062. Q65. A young female presented with a severe headache that worsens with standing and is relieved by lying down. Based on your suspected diagnosis of intracranial hypotension, what is the most common imaging finding?

2063. A patient with migraine that worsens with her period, what is the recommended treatment?

2064. A 24-year-old female came to the clinic asking for a third opinion for her headache. The first doctor told her she has cluster headaches while the other one said it is migraine. She asked you what is the best way to differentiate these two headaches?

2065. Which of the following is NOT a preventive management option for short-lasting unilateral neuralgiform headache attacks?

2066. The acute treatment for cluster headache is:

2067. A patient presents with papilledema and headache, suggestive of idiopathic intracranial hypertension (IIH). What is your next step in management?

2068. A patient with cluster headache, what is the treatment?

2069. In a case of typical SUNCT, what is the recommended treatment?

2070. A young female patient with a history of migraines and diabetes mellitus is a university student. What is the best preventive medication for her migraines?

2071. A 43-year-old male with a history of around 30 attacks of severe headache per day, each attack lasting for less than one minute and sometimes triggered by chewing. The first line treatment is:

2072. A patient presents with a headache and tearing that lasts less than 5 minutes and occurs 20–30 times a day. What is the likely diagnosis?

2073. What is the best anti-emetic medication for migraine?

2074. In a pregnant patient with migraines, which prophylactic medication is suitable?

2075. In managing migraines during pregnancy, what should be the initial approach regardless of headache severity?

2076. A female patient experiences migraines once a month, and her brain MRI shows one small white matter lesion in each hemisphere. What should be the next step in management?

2077. A pregnant female in her third trimester presents with status migrainosus. What is the most appropriate treatment option?

2078. A patient presents with paroxysmal throat pain triggered by swallowing and recurrent syncope suggestive of glossopharyngeal neuralgia. What is the next best step in management?

2079. A patient presents with a stabbing headache occurring 100 times a day. What is the treatment?

2080. A patient presents with a small area of headache associated with hair loss. What is the treatment?

2081. In a case of trigeminal neuralgia, what is the most predictive of a structural cause?

2082. A female patient presented with a history of flashing in the right eye, followed by right homonymous hemianopia and left side weakness over 45 minutes. During her way, she had a headache. CT brain, CTA including DWI were all normal. What is the most likely diagnosis?

2083. A 30-year-old patient with a history of migraines presents with daily headaches for the past 2 months. Unlike her migraines, these headaches are not associated with nausea or photophobia. She states the headaches are constant, and she must take ibuprofen and many other analgesics with much improvement. What is the likely diagnosis?

2084. In the scenario of paroxysmal hemicrania, what is the management?

2085. A patient experiences headaches lasting less than 1 minute, occurring 40 times a day, and is associated with lacrimation and eye injection. What is the most appropriate treatment?

2086. A patient presents with unilateral headaches on a daily basis associated with ptosis and lacrimation. What is the diagnosis?

2087. A patient with migraine presents with nausea and vomiting. Laboratory tests show normal liver function but elevated amylase and lipase levels. Which of the following preventive treatments for migraine is known to cause this side effect?

2088. What is the mechanism of action of Botox in the treatment of migraine headaches?

2089. In managing migraine during pregnancy, what is the initial approach regardless of headache severity?

2090. A male patient presents with unilateral pain on the forehead lasting for 1 minute, with conjunctival injection and tearing, occurring 40 times per day. There are no identifiable triggers. What is the most appropriate treatment?

2091. An obese lady with asthma also suffers from migraine. What is the recommended treatment?

2092. A 29-year-old female came to the neurology clinic asking for a third opinion regarding her headache. The first physician diagnosed her with cluster headache, while the second physician diagnosed her with SUNCT headache. What is the best way to differentiate between these two headache types?

2093. A male patient presents with a shock-like electric sensation in half of his face multiple times per day, avoiding brushing and shaving. What is the recommended treatment?

2094. A patient presented with unilateral headache for a few months, sharp, lasting less than 1 minute, recurrent daily about 40 times, associated with lacrimation and conjunctival injection. What is the treatment of choice?

2095. Q23. A woman who is post-partum (gave birth via cesarean section) presents with headache, and an MRI shows coronal T1 with pachymeningeal enhancement. The headache increases when she sits. What is the best management?

2096. Q108. A pregnant woman with a history of migraines requires prophylactic treatment. What is the best option?

2097. In a case scenario of trigeminal neuralgia (TN) triggered by touching his face, he also has lacrimation. What is the management?

2098. A patient presents with a headache and tearing that lasts 15–30 minutes and occurs approximately 7 times a day, with a history of pain provoked by touching the face. What is the likely diagnosis?

2099. Q17. A patient with continuous headache for 4 months experiences episodic increases in pain intensity. What is the recommended treatment?

2100. A 35-year-old male presents with a history of headaches lasting 1 to 1.5 hours, accompanied by nasal congestion, tearing, and left facial swelling. These episodes occur every year for 1 to 1.5 months, after which he experiences no headaches for the rest of the year. What is the best treatment?

2101. A male patient experiences a very severe headache after orgasm that then improves. What would you do?

2102. A scenario describes a patient with ophthalmic migraine (third or sixth nerve palsy). What is the diagnosis?

2103. A case of migraine presents with nausea and vomiting, liver function tests are normal, but there are elevated amylase and lipase levels. Which of the following preventive treatments for migraine is known to cause this side effect?

2104. Based on current FDA classifications, which of the following is NOT recommended for migraine treatment during pregnancy?

2105. A patient presents with a positional headache that worsens with standing. A brain MRI shows pachymeningeal enhancement. What is the most likely diagnosis?

2106. A pregnant woman in her 8th month presents with an acute migraine. What is the recommended treatment?

2107. Q11. A patient with migraine presents with a new onset of headache that is unlike their previous migraine headaches and is not improving despite an increased dose and frequency of analgesics. What is the most likely diagnosis?

2108. A male presents with occipital headache radiating to the frontal area. On exam, he has tenderness over the occipital protuberance and his headache worsens with head movement. What is the recommended treatment?

2109. What is the best treatment for migraine-related nausea?

2110. What’s the mechanism of action of Botox in migraine headache?

2111. A postpartum patient presents with a history of headache, and an attached picture shows pachymeningeal enhancement. What is the next best step in management?

2112. Patient presented with recurrent migraine headache, disabling, causing loss of many hours per week, and has a history of asthma on inhalers. What is the treatment of choice?

2113. A 40-year-old patient presented with a headache for the past 4 months. It is continuous with periods of exacerbation, unilateral, associated with lacrimation. The patient tried paracetamol and NSAIDs with no benefits. What is the treatment?

2114. Q64. Which medication is recommended for migraine treatment in the 1st and 2nd trimester of pregnancy?

2115. Q44. What is the best treatment for hypnic headache?

2116. A female patient presents with severe headache and papilledema, and no imaging has been performed. What is the next best step in management?

2117. What is the first-line treatment for migraine in pediatric patients?

2118. An obese female with a history of bronchial asthma is seeking migraine prophylaxis. Which medication is most appropriate?

2119. Which medication is NOT recommended for migraine treatment in the 3rd trimester of pregnancy?

2120. Patient has migraine headache, tried multiple analgesics and NSAIDs with no benefits. What is the symptomatic treatment?

2121. A patient presents with headache, photophobia, phonophobia, and nausea. Her mother reports a history of menstrual-related headaches, and her sister has similar headaches that require a calm environment. What is the likely diagnosis?

2122. In the same scenario, what is the recommended treatment?

2123. A 25-year-old female with a history of type 1 diabetes mellitus experiences migraines once a month that last more than 24 hours. She is in her final year at university. What medication will you prescribe for prophylaxis?

2124. A 45-year-old with migraine and peptic ulcer, what is the best medication for prevention?

2125. Which of the following medications is considered a third-line treatment for migraine and is classified as pregnancy category C?

2126. A scenario of acute onset daily headache which is constant and not related to any triggering factors or other symptoms has been present for 3 months. What is the most likely diagnosis?

2127. Q79. A migraine patient's MRI brain shows hyperintense small lesions. What is the recommended management?

2128. A patient with migraine presents with a new onset of headache that is unlike previous migraine headaches and is not improving despite an increased dose and frequency of analgesics. What is the likely diagnosis?

2129. A migraine patient with daily persistent headache has been taking daily triptans and NSAIDs. What is the next management step?

2130. A patient with chronic migraine, what is the treatment?

2131. A pregnant woman at 10 weeks of gestation presents with severe migraine. What is the most appropriate medication to administer?

2132. A 27-year-old female presents with a severe headache located over the right side of her head, characterized by throbbing pain, nausea, and phonophobia. Her neurological examination is normal, and a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain is also normal. Which of the following would be a reasonable first-line agent for her headache?

2133. A 23-year-old female with type 1 diabetes mellitus is seeking prophylaxis for her migraines. What medication should be prescribed?

2134. What is the sign on brain MRI of a patient with intracranial hypotension?

2135. A 33-year-old female with a history of migraines calls the office because of a severe migraine at 32 weeks of pregnancy. There are no complicating features to her headache, and this headache is similar to all her prior headaches. Which of the following abortive therapies would be the most appropriate for this patient?

2136. Q75. Which of the following is NOT a criterion for neuroimaging in children with headaches?

2137. In the same scenario asking about treatment, what is the appropriate medication?

2138. A male presents with an occipital headache radiating to the frontal area. On examination, he has tenderness over the occipital protuberance, and the headache worsens with head movement. What is the recommended treatment?

2139. What is the treatment for an acute attack of short-lasting unilateral neuralgiform headache?

2140. What percentage of migraine patients report their attack in the emergency room as disabling after 24 hours?

2141. A patient has continuous headache for 3 months with some increase in baseline pain. What is the likely diagnosis?

2142. Q3. A case scenario of trigeminal neuralgia (TN) is presented, where the condition is triggered by touching his face and he also has lacrimation. What is the diagnosis?

2143. In SUNCT, what are the minimum ipsilateral autonomic symptoms?

2144. Q95. A 25-year-old man presents with episodic, unilateral, throbbing headaches associated with nausea and light and noise sensitivity. They are triggered by some foods, including cheddar cheese. Most of his headaches occur without any obvious precipitant. He generally has one headache on the weekend that keeps him from his regular activities on the days they occur. He has had this occurring at least 1 to 2 days per week with at least 50% time loss. He has tried multiple over-the-counter remedies without satisfactory relief. Which of the following medications for symptomatic treatment of his headache would be most appropriate at this time?

2145. A middle-aged female presents with unilateral headache associated with tearing and ptosis. What should be given?

2146. What is the treatment for hypnic headache?

2147. Q1. What is the physiology of cluster headache?

2148. Q96. A young lady experiences severe headaches with orgasm, and similar episodes occur every time. What is the most appropriate treatment?

2149. What is the main neurotransmitter involved in migraine headaches?

2150. Q101. In a case of paroxysmal hemicrania, what is the treatment?

2151. Q114. A pregnant patient at 12 weeks gestational age with status migrainosus is asking about management. What is the appropriate treatment?

2152. Q66. What is a contraindication for using NSAIDs in the 3rd trimester of pregnancy?

2153. A young man has a history of headaches lasting 15–20 minutes, located over his orbit, associated with nasal congestion. His wife reports that he becomes irritated and angry during these episodes. What is the best treatment?

2154. A 30-year-old female patient, known to have migraine, presented with a new headache unlike her usual migraines for more than 3 months. It is more constant, not associated with nausea, vomiting, photophobia, or phonophobia, and not improved with usual analgesics. Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?

2155. A patient presents with a history of unilateral headache, severe, lasting less than 5 minutes, with stabbing pain and associated autonomic symptoms on the same side (tearing). What is the best approach for treatment?

2156. A patient presents with a headache that came out of the blue and has persisted for 3 months. What is the most likely diagnosis?

2157. Q54. A patient presents with a history of unilateral headache, severe, lasting less than 5 minutes, with stabbing pain and associated autonomic symptoms on the same side (tearing). What is the most likely diagnosis?

2158. In a patient with migraine without aura, which of the following is the most relevant clinical picture?

2159. A patient presents with a headache, normal brain CT, and lumbar puncture (LP) done by an intern that shows 48 WBCs, 780 RBCs, normal protein, and glucose. What is the most likely diagnosis?

2160. What is the mechanism of action of Botox in the treatment of migraine headaches?

2161. In a scenario of cluster headache, what additional finding is expected?

2162. A 50-year-old male with a history of migraine has recently been diagnosed with myocardial infarction (MI) and coronary artery disease (CAD). What is contraindicated for use regarding preventive treatment of migraine?

2163. Q195. Which of the following is required for a diagnosis of pseudotumor cerebri syndrome?

2164. What is the second-line management for trigeminal neuralgia after carbamazepine?

2165. A 67-year-old patient with a history of severe bilateral temporal headache and a high ESR of 30 presents with sectoranopia (superior quadrant loss of vision).

2166. A postpartum patient who underwent a C-section presents with a headache that worsens upon standing and during Valsalva maneuver, and is not responding to medication. What is the most appropriate next step in management?

2167. A young female presented with a severe headache; CT imaging shows pituitary apoplexy. What is the likely diagnosis?

2168. Q66. SUNCT and SUNA are characterized by sudden brief attacks of severe unilateral head pain in which regions?

2169. Pseudorossettes are characteristic of which of the following tumors?

2170. Q136. What is the characteristic of diffuse astrocytoma grade 2?

2171. Patient with intracranial mass crossing the corpus callosum; what is the histology you will see?

2172. Dexamethasone is best indicated for which type of edema?

2173. Q128. Histopathology for the attached MRI shows which of the following features indicative of Glioblastoma?

2174. A 30-year-old female smoker presents with sensory neuropathy and motor symptoms. A chest X-ray shows a mass at the lung apex. What is the most likely diagnosis?

2175. Dexamethasone is helpful in which of the following clinical scenarios?

2176. A patient presents with headache and bilateral 6th nerve palsy with papilledema, and a red mass is seen from the nostril with MRI showing a cystic lesion arising from the clivus. What is the diagnosis?

2177. Which brain tumor is characterized by histopathological pseudorosettes?

2178. A case scenario involves a patient with a brain tumor. The MRI brain report shows a focal lesion with peripheral enhancement and a hypointense central core. The pathology report indicates highly vascular proliferation with atypia and central necrosis. Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?

2179. Q52. A butterfly mass with necrosis in the center is observed. What is the most likely grade of this glioma?

2180. A brain lesion with a pathologic description of central necrosis is most likely which type of tumor?

2181. A brain tumor with histology of pseudorosette is most likely:

2182. A child has a 3-week history of lower limb weakness. MRI of the spine shows T4 and T8 intramedullary irregular non-enhancing lesions. What is the likely diagnosis?

2183. Q60. A brain MRI shows a mass originating from the fourth ventricle with histology showing pseudorosettes. What is the diagnosis?

2184. A patient with a tumor in the lateral ventricle is most likely to have which type of tumor?

2185. In a patient with Neurofibromatosis type 1 who presented with syncopal attacks and a lateral ventricular mass, what is the most likely tumor?

2186. A lady presents with a cerebellopontine angle mass; pathology shows psammoma bodies. What is the likely diagnosis?

2187. Q27. Anaplastic astrocytoma is characterized by which of the following features?

2188. Which of the following tumors is characterized by the presence of Rosenthal fibers?

2189. In which case would steroids have an effect?

2190. Q19. Homer Wright rosettes are associated with which type of tumor?

2191. A right brain lesion with pathology showing a fried egg appearance is noted. What is the next step? There is no mass effect on imaging.

2192. A patient with CNS tumor pathology shows a Fried egg appearance. What is the appropriate treatment?

2193. A 57-year-old male patient with renal cell carcinoma is brought to the emergency department with confusion and seizure. Brain MRI shows a single mass with vasogenic edema. Which of the following is the most appropriate treatment?

2194. A patient presents with headache and bilateral 6th nerve palsy with papilledema. A red mass is seen from the nostril, and MRI shows a cystic lesion arising from the clivus. What is the diagnosis?

2195. What are the most common posterior fossa tumors in children?

2196. A 40-year-old female presents with chronic headache. An MRI shows a frontal parasagittal enhancing lesion. What do you expect to find in the brain biopsy?

2197. A patient with only skull and dural metastases, what is the next step?

2198. What is the treatment plan for a patient with a schwannoma?

2199. In which of the following scenarios does dexamethasone help?

2200. A 5-year-old male with renal cell carcinoma was brought to the ED with confusion and seizures. Brain MRI shows a single mass with vasogenic edema. What is the best treatment?

2201. A female patient has papilledema, signs of increased intracranial pressure, and MRI showed a frontal mass; what is the next step?

2202. What is the pathology of Ependymoma?

2203. In a case scenario of a patient with findings suggestive of Neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1), what associated conditions should be considered?

2204. What is the most common benign intracranial tumor?

2205. Which of the following cancers can cause metastasis only to the dura and skull?

2206. A clival mass is visible from the nostril. What is the most likely diagnosis?

2207. A pathology report indicates atypia and necrosis. What is the most likely diagnosis?

2208. A boy who presented with early morning headache and a suprasellar mass found on imaging with hormonal changes, what is the most likely tumor?

2209. Q149. A patient presented with tinnitus, hearing loss, and was found to have a tumor in the pons near the fourth ventricle. What is the most likely origin of the tumor?

2210. In the case of a 59-year-old male patient with a history of prostate cancer, what is the most likely diagnosis if the imaging shows no hemorrhagic lesions?

2211. Q134. What is the most common posterior fossa tumor in children?

2212. A patient presents with bitemporal hemianopia and headache, along with a drop in hemoglobin. What is the most likely diagnosis?

2213. A tumor of the clivus is most likely to be which type of tumor?

2214. A patient with non-Hodgkin lymphoma presents with headache and urinary symptoms, and imaging shows leptomeningeal enhancement in both the brain and spinal cord. What is the most likely route of spreading?

2215. Q23. A patient with neurofibromatosis type 2 presents with progressive unilateral hearing loss and an enhancing mass at the cerebellopontine angle on MRI. Which of the following tumors is most likely?

2216. Q240. A patient with glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) has an MRI showing increased edema and mass effect. What is the next step in management?

2217. Q21. In patients with suspected brain metastases, which diagnostic test is most sensitive for detecting parenchymal metastatic lesions?

2218. A child with neurofibromatosis presents with headache and syncope and is found to have a tumor in the lateral ventricle. What is the most likely diagnosis?

2219. Which condition is associated with Subependymal Giant Cell Astrocytoma (SEGA)?

2220. Q13. Which of the following histopathological features is associated with oligodendroglioma?

2221. Blue cells can be found in which of the following tumors?

2222. A brain MRI shows a mass originating from the fourth ventricle with histology showing pseudorosettes. What is the diagnosis?

2223. Which tumor is associated with opsoclonus myoclonus syndrome?

2224. A patient with hypopituitarism, a pituitary mass, and meningeal enhancement is being evaluated. What is the next appropriate imaging study?

2225. Patient with an intracranial mass crossing the corpus callosum; what is the histology you will see?

2226. A female patient has papilledema, signs of increased intracranial pressure, and MRI showed a frontal mass; what is the next step?

2227. Q60. Combines location and histology to diagnose Ependymoma.

2228. A patient with active but untreated renal cell carcinoma presents with a headache. Brain imaging reveals a single mass with surrounding edema. What is the most appropriate treatment?

2229. Q46. Addresses initial management decision for a symptomatic brain tumor.

2230. Q1. Metastases only to the dura and skull will happen with what of the following?

2231. Q28. Addresses immediate management of symptomatic edema in GBM.

2232. Q72. Addresses management of solitary brain metastasis.

2233. A patient came with a history of confusion and difficulty to arouse. MRI shows a glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) with large diffuse vasogenic edema. What is your next step in management?

2234. A 57-year-old male patient with renal cell carcinoma is brought to the emergency department with confusion and seizures. The brain MRI shows a single mass with vasogenic edema. Which of the following is the most appropriate treatment?

2235. Which of the following statements about the epidemiology of pediatric brain tumors is correct?

2236. Q141. Links "butterfly glioma" imaging to GBM histology.

2237. What is the most common pediatric posterior fossa tumor?

2238. A 4-year-old boy diagnosed with an intramedullary spinal cord tumor, non-enhancing on MRI, presents with no other details. What is the most likely diagnosis?

2239. Q72. Addresses management of solitary brain metastasis.

2240. Q3. Tests knowledge of primary cancers metastasizing to dura/skull.

2241. Psammoma bodies are typically found in which of the following tumors?

2242. An elderly patient diagnosed with glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) and treated 5 years ago presented with decreased level of consciousness. MRI of the brain showed a tumor with vasogenic edema. What is the next step?

2243. Regarding diffuse astrocytoma grade 2, which statement is true?

2244. A pediatric patient presents with progressive gait disturbance and sensory changes. MRI of the spine reveals an intramedullary, T2‐hyperintense lesion spanning multiple vertebral segments that demonstrates no contrast enhancement. What is the most likely diagnosis?

2245. Q403. Addresses management of symptomatic edema in GBM.

2246. A patient with glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) has an MRI showing increased edema and mass effect. What is the next step in management?

2247. Q136. Asks about characteristics/prognosis of low-grade glioma.

2248. In which of the following conditions does dexamethasone provide benefit?

2249. A patient presents with a left-sided chronic headache and develops upper extremity weakness. Imaging reveals a mass with a dural tail. What is the most likely location of the mass?

2250. A patient has a left temporal lobe glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) with clear mass effect on imaging. What is the next step in management? The patient has right-sided weakness and confusion.

2251. An MRI showed an intramedullary, ill-defined, non-enhancing lesion. What is the most likely diagnosis?

2252. A child presents with a cerebellopontine angle tumor and hearing loss for more than 5 months. What should be done?

2253. Q18. Tests knowledge of steroid effectiveness for tumor edema.*

2254. Q139. Asks about epidemiology of benign brain tumors.

2255. Most common benign intracranial neoplasm:

2256. Tumor pathology showing pseudorosette is indicative of which diagnosis?

2257. A patient with renal cell carcinoma presents with retinal hemangioblastoma and cerebellar hemangioblastoma. What is the diagnosis?

2258. Q179. Links histology (pseudorosette) to tumor type (Ependymoma).

2259. Q149. A patient presents with unilateral sensorineural hearing loss, tinnitus, and balance disturbance. MRI shows a contrast-enhancing lesion at the cerebellopontine angle extending into the internal auditory canal. Which of the following is the most likely tumor type?

2260. A 35-year-old patient presents with progressive lower extremity weakness and sensory disturbances. MRI of the spinal cord demonstrates an intramedullary mass that does not enhance after gadolinium administration. What is the most likely diagnosis?

2261. Q142. Links histology (Oligodendroglioma) to treatment.

2262. A patient with CNS tumor pathology showed a Fried egg appearance on imaging. What is the appropriate treatment?

2263. Q25. What histopathological feature is associated with glioblastoma?

2264. A 6-year-old girl has a headache and diplopia. On examination, she has impaired upward gaze, lid retraction, and convergence retraction nystagmus. What is the diagnosis?

2265. Q126. Which of the following tumors most commonly arises within the ventricular system?

2266. Q33. In a patient with newly diagnosed brain metastases, which of the following is the most appropriate initial investigation to identify the primary tumor source?

2267. Q6. Links typical Meningioma imaging to its histology.

2268. In a case of cranial metastases, what is the most appropriate initial imaging study to perform?

2269. Pathology features of meningioma include psammoma bodies. What is the diagnosis?

2270. A tumor located in the lateral ventricle is most likely a:

2271. A male patient over the age of 50 presents with subcortical/cortical metastases. What is the most likely primary origin of his brain metastases?

2272. Histopathology for the attached MRI shows which of the following features indicative of Ependymoma grade II WHO?

2273. A coronal brain MRI shows a frontal extra-axial homogeneous mass. What is the likely histopathology finding?

2274. A brain tumor with characteristic cells encircling each other called psammoma bodies is:

2275. A pediatric patient presented with expansile spinal cord signal changes with partial enhancement. What is the most likely diagnosis?

2276. A brain MRI shows a butterfly mass. What is the most likely diagnosis?

2277. Q131. A pseudorosette is observed. What is the diagnosis?

2278. A gynecological ultrasound shows an ovarian tumor. What is the recommended treatment?

2279. In HIV/AIDS patients, what are the most common subtypes of AIDS-associated lymphoma?

2280. Q35. Links histology (pseudorosette) to tumor type (Ependymoma).

2281. A patient presents with progressive sensorimotor deficits of the lower extremities. MRI of the spinal cord reveals an intramedullary, T2 hyperintense lesion that does not enhance after contrast administration. What is the most likely diagnosis?

2282. A patient who is a smoker has an X-ray showing a lung tumor and presents with peripheral neuropathy. What is the most likely cause?

2283. A smoker presenting with polyneuropathy may have antibodies against which of the following?

2284. A 31-year-old female smoker with subacute sensory neuropathy and motor symptoms has a chest X-ray showing a mass at the lung apex. What is the appropriate antibiotic treatment?

2285. Upon workup of the same patient, you find an ovarian teratoma. What is the best management option?

2286. Q217. Suggestive of paraneoplastic syndrome workup.

2287. A patient with a history of breast cancer presents post-resection and chemoradiation therapy with progressive arm pain and paresthesias. Nerve conduction studies localize a lower trunk brachial plexopathy. What is the most likely cause?

2288. Q25. A spine MRI shows an intermediary non-enhancing mass. What is the most likely diagnosis?

2289. An elderly patient came with sensory motor neuropathy with distal weakness (he has dorsiflexion weakness), weight loss, and malaise; what is the next step?

2290. An elderly patient presents with a sensorimotor neuropathy characterized by distal weakness (notably dorsiflexion weakness), accompanied by weight loss and malaise. What is the next step?

2291. A patient with breast cancer post-treatment presented with horizontal nystagmus without fast components, clumsiness, and falling. What is the likely diagnosis?

2292. A 44-year-old woman is evaluated for severe and progressive left shoulder pain radiating down to the left arm and forearm that started 5 weeks ago. Since then, she has developed left hand weakness and numbness in the fourth and fifth fingers. She has a history of localized left breast adenocarcinoma that was diagnosed 5 years ago and treated with lumpectomy and axillary node dissection followed by radiation therapy and chemotherapy, including paclitaxel. Examination shows anisocoria with the left pupil smaller than the right, mild left eyelid ptosis, weakness in intrinsic left hand muscles, and sensory loss in the left medial arm, forearm, and fourth and fifth fingers. Reflexes are normal. The rest of her neurologic examination is normal. Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?

2293. A patient with renal cell carcinoma presents with retinal hemangioblastoma and cerebellar hemangioblastoma. What is the diagnosis?

2294. A female patient with a history of breast cancer underwent radical mastectomy followed by radiation therapy. She now presents with left upper limb weakness and paresthesia involving the last two and a half digits, along with decreased sensation in the medial forearm. EMG showed myokymic discharges. Which of the following is the diagnosis?

2295. Q44. Which of the following tumors is most commonly associated with opsoclonus-myoclonus?

2296. A young boy presents with 4th nerve palsy. Where is the tumor likely located?

2297. Q308. A young lady with progressive insomnia developed psychiatric symptoms, was admitted to the psychiatry ward, and then developed choreiform movements with no improvement from benzodiazepines. What is the malignancy most likely associated with her symptoms?

2298. Q14. A 25-year-old patient complains of inability to walk down the stairs. Upon examination, he has impaired vertical gaze, normal horizontal gaze, and normal visual acuity. Where is the lesion likely located?

2299. A male patient exhibits behavior changes and has an MRI showing a frontal lesion with heterogeneous enhancement. What is the recommended next step?

2300. A 4-year-old child presents with nausea, vomiting, diplopia, and ataxia. What is the most likely diagnosis?

2301. A patient with a history of breast cancer presents with opsoclonus-myoclonus syndrome. Which antibody is most likely associated with this condition?

2302. An elderly male patient came with pancerebellar degeneration. What is the paraneoplastic antibody?

2303. In a case scenario of small cell lung cancer (SCLC) with peripheral neuropathy, which antibody is commonly associated?

2304. An elderly male patient presents with pancerebellar degeneration. What is the paraneoplastic antibody associated with this condition?

2305. Q25. A patient with breast cancer presents with spontaneous nystagmus suggestive of opsoclonus-myoclonus syndrome. Which antibody is associated with this condition?

2306. Q307. A patient presents with opsoclonus myoclonus. What is the associated malignancy?

2307. A child with proptosis has a mother who also has proptosis and light brown dots in the neck. What is the most likely diagnosis?

2308. In a case scenario of opsoclonus myoclonus associated with breast cancer, which antibody is typically found?

2309. An elderly male presents with painful sensory symptoms, progressive loss of coordination, and sensory ataxia. What is the possible antibody associated with his condition?

2310. In a patient presenting with multiple café-au-lait macules, cutaneous neurofibromas, and Lisch nodules on slit-lamp examination, what is the most likely diagnosis?

2311. A patient with ADHD presents with light brown lesions. What is the most likely diagnosis?

2312. In a case with spinal cord and posterior fossa tumors, the most likely diagnosis is:

2313. A patient has 7 flat brown lesions on the skin. What is the most likely diagnosis?

2314. A patient with ADHD has a mother with brown pigmentations in her neck. What is the diagnosis?

2315. A child with proptosis has a mother with similar symptoms and light brown dots on the neck. What is the most likely diagnosis?

2316. A child who presented with ADHD and multiple light brown macula on skin, what is the diagnosis?

2317. A patient presents with a cyst, and his brother has a hemangioblastoma. There is a family history of similar conditions in his brother and sister. What syndrome is this indicative of?

2318. SEGA is associated with which disease?

2319. A male known case of testicular cancer presented with encephalitis. Which antibodies might be involved?

2320. A child is suspected to have ADHD and presents with café au lait spots and flickering movements. What is the most likely diagnosis?

2321. Q141. What are the criteria for Tuberous Sclerosis (TS)?

2322. A patient with a history of breast cancer presents with weight loss and loss of sensation in the medial forearm. Which trunk is likely affected?

2323. A patient known to have breast cancer presents with ataxia and nystagmus. Which antibodies might be relevant in this case?

2324. A patient presents with proptosis and decreased eye movements, and he has brown pigmentations. What is the diagnosis of his eye condition? (Pigmentations likely suggest NF1)

2325. Q380. In Foster Kennedy syndrome with right optic atrophy, where is the lesion located?

2326. A patient presents with retinal lesions and a family history of cerebellar hemangioblastoma. What is the most likely diagnosis?

2327. A patient came with a brain tumor, and his first-degree relative had a history of spine tumor and persisting high blood pressure. What is the diagnosis?

2328. A patient with multiple café-au-lait spots presents with unilateral proptosis and restricted extraocular movements. What is the most likely diagnosis of his orbital lesion?

2329. A young female presented with a severe headache; CT imaging shows pituitary apoplexy. What is the likely diagnosis?

2330. Brun’s nystagmus localizes to the cerebellopontine angle (CPA) and is most commonly indicative of what?

2331. Q41. The clinical picture suggests an optic pathway glioma related to neurofibromatosis, asking for the tumor diagnosis.

2332. An 8-year-old girl with a pineal gland tumor and obstructive hydrocephalus is being examined. What is expected to be found in her neuro-ophthalmological exam?

2333. A patient presents with cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) showing lymphocytosis and eosinophilia, and is diagnosed with neuroschistosomiasis. What is the treatment?

2334. A patient with features of Whipple’s disease and oculomasticatory myorhythmia is being evaluated. What is the next best step in management?

2335. A patient with meningitis from Alhaj is found to have meningococcal meningitis. What prophylaxis should be given to close contacts (excluding rifampin)?

2336. A patient presents with cerebrospinal fluid showing lymphocytosis and marked eosinophilia and is diagnosed with neuroschistosomiasis. What is the treatment?

2337. A patient who is returning from Sudan had fever, confusion, and headache. What test should you perform?

2338. Young lady with SLE, seizures, and vitals: temperature 39°C with image of temporal lobe involvement. What is your diagnosis?

2339. Q56. A case scenario presents a patient with a history of oculomasticatory myorhythmia. What is the most appropriate diagnostic procedure?

2340. What is the most common organism responsible for bacterial meningitis?

2341. In a scenario of cavernous sinus thrombosis, what is the diagnosis?

2342. Which of the following infections is more common to cause internuclear ophthalmoplegia (INO)?

2343. An HIV‐positive patient presents with subacute confusion and blurred vision. Brain MRI reveals multiple non‐enhancing, T2 hyperintense white matter lesions without mass effect. What is the recommended management?

2344. Q110. Lady presented with fever, headache and neck stiffness, she had occipital decompression for Chiari malformation last week, what is the most common organism? (No pseudomonas aeruginosa)

2345. Q182. Patient came with neurosyphilis, VDRL positive; what are the symptoms associated with the disease?

2346. Q61. A patient with HIV has a brain MRI showing a single ring-enhancing lesion. What is the management?

2347. Patient came with neurosyphilis; VDRL positive. What are the symptoms associated with the disease?

2348. A patient with HIV presents with a non-enhancing white matter mass on MRI and has not been compliant with HAART. What is the recommended treatment?

2349. In an HIV‐positive patient presenting with new focal neurological deficits and brain MRI showing two non‐enhancing white matter lesions, what is the most likely diagnosis?

2350. Q130. An HIV patient on HAART is not compliant and presents with confusion. A brain MRI shows patchy cortical and cerebellar signal enhancement. What is the best treatment?

2351. Q149. A patient who underwent decompression for Chiari malformation two weeks ago presents with meningitis. What is the most common organism responsible for this condition?

2352. A scenario suggests subacute sclerosing panencephalitis (SSPE), and an EEG shows periodic burst complexes. What should be done next?

2353. In a scenario of an HIV patient presented with new neurological focality and brain MRI showing two non-enhancing white matter lesions, what is the likely diagnosis?

2354. In a case of meningitis, what prophylactic treatment should be given to family members?

2355. What is the most common bacterial meningitis?

2356. A patient presented with fever and confusion, was anemic, and had hypoglycemia, which was treated. CSF was normal along with labs. What medication should be used to treat this patient?

2357. A male from Africa presents to Saudi Arabia with fever and vague neurological symptoms, including encephalopathy. What is the most likely diagnosis?

2358. What is the best management for neuro-brucellosis?

2359. In HIV-AIDS patients who are refractory to initial empiric treatment for CNS toxoplasmosis, what should be considered for a definitive diagnosis?

2360. A patient diagnosed with HIV one month ago presents now with paraparesis. What is the most likely diagnosis?

2361. An HIV patient on highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) who is non-compliant developed PML. What should be done?

2362. Scenario of a diabetic patient with a history of sinusitis and focal neurological deficit. What is the diagnosis?

2363. In case of contact with a patient who has meningitis, what is the recommended prophylaxis?

2364. A patient with HIV presents with deteriorated level of consciousness and a CT scan shows an enhancing mass. What is your next step in management?

2365. When should metronidazole be added to meningitis treatment?

2366. Q63. A sickle cell patient presents with back pain and lower limb weakness. On examination, he has back tenderness. What is the most likely organism responsible for his condition?

2367. What is the primary mechanism of infection by Ameba bacteria?

2368. In a diabetic male older than 50 years, what kind of organisms do you expect to see if he develops meningitis?

2369. A patient with a long history presented with seizures and flaccid paralysis. What is the most likely cause?

2370. Corticosteroids with an antibiotic regimen for meningitis help with which of the following?

2371. A patient with schistosomiasis presents with lower limb weakness and high eosinophils in the CBC. What is the recommended treatment?

2372. What is the recommended prophylactic treatment for meningitis?

2373. Q171. A patient with encephalopathy, EEG showed slow bilateral synchronous high amplitude spikes. What is the likely cause?

2374. A patient with meningitis from Alhaj is found to have meningococcal meningitis. What prophylaxis should be given to close contacts?

2375. Q142. When suspicion for CNS toxoplasmosis is low based on brain imaging, CD4 count, and negative serology, what may be considered?

2376. In neuro-brucellosis, what is the recommended treatment?

2377. In the case of tuberculosis (TB), which artery is most commonly involved?

2378. A diabetic patient came to the ER with a black lesion in her nostril. What is the treatment?

2379. A young girl presents with a complaint of back pain, fever, and night sweats. She shows signs of stroke on examination. What is the best diagnostic test?

2380. What is the most common organism associated with polyradiculopathy in HIV patients?

2381. In a diabetic patient presenting with a black necrotic lesion on the nasal turbinate and rapid progression of facial pain and swelling, what is the most likely diagnosis?

2382. An HIV‐positive patient with a CD4 count of 50 cells/μL presents with headache and focal neurologic deficits. Brain imaging demonstrates a solitary ring‐enhancing lesion. What is the next step in management?

2383. An HIV patient’s MRI showed multiple brain abscesses. What is the causing organism?

2384. A patient with sickle cell anemia presents with low back pain and fever. What is the most likely organism responsible for these symptoms?

2385. Q19. A healthy individual returns from hiking in the USA and presents with radiculopathy. CSF analysis shows WBC count of 22 with 90% lymphocytes, high protein, and normal glucose. What is the most likely diagnosis?

2386. Which of the following neuro manifestations is associated with Whipple disease?

2387. What is the confirmation method for Whipple disease?

2388. Q144. Which infection causes bilateral internuclear ophthalmoplegia (INO)?

2389. Tropical spastic paraparesis due to human T-lymphotropic virus type 1 (HTLV-1) typically occurs in which of the following regions?

2390. A diabetic patient comes to the ER with a black lesion in her nostril. What is the treatment?

2391. A male nurse was exposed to a patient with meningococcal meningitis. What should be done?

2392. In an HIV-positive patient with a low CD4 count and an MRI showing multiple ring-enhancing lesions, what is the most likely responsible organism?

2393. Q115. A patient presented with focal numbness on a skin lesion. Investigation revealed nerve enlargement around the lesion, and there is an attached picture of a reddish skin patch. What is the diagnosis?

2394. An HIV patient has a brain CT showing multiple ring-enhancing lesions. What is the next step in management?

2395. A case scenario of a young male IV drug user presented with fever and hemiparesis. What will you do?

2396. When should Metronidazole be added to a patient started on empirical anti-meningitis coverage?

2397. In a patient with poorly controlled diabetes mellitus presenting with facial pain, nasal congestion, and a black necrotic eschar on the nasal turbinate, what is the most likely diagnosis?

2398. A 30-year-old male patient with a history of lupus who is on steroids and has undergone a kidney transplant presents with fever and headache. MRI shows temporal enhancement. What is the most likely diagnosis?

2399. A patient presented with fever and visual loss. Fundoscopic examination reported retinal whitening, orange discoloration of vessels, and multiple retinal hemorrhages. What is the diagnosis?

2400. Q173. A stroke patient has a fever, and cardiac consultation showed a pansystolic murmur. What is the treatment?

2401. In the case of cavernous mucormycosis, which statement is true?

2402. In an HIV patient with a non-enhancing lesion in the parietal lobe, which statement is true?

2403. In the same scenario (diabetic patient with a black eschar on the nasal mucosa suggestive of rhinocerebral mucormycosis), what is the treatment for the infection?

2404. What is the most effective prevention method for post-herpetic neuralgia?

2405. A patient presents with a one-month history of increased thirst, headache, fever, and personality changes. Brain MRI shows bilateral cortical and subcortical hypodensities on T2 involving the frontal, parietal, and occipital lobes, hypothalamus, midbrain, pons, and medulla. Lumbar puncture shows less than 20 WBCs (99% lymphocytes), low glucose, and high protein, with negative culture. What is the most likely diagnosis?

2406. A 79-year-old female has a 4-week history of malaise, low-grade fever, and altered mental status. She is found to have diffuse flaccid weakness in all four limbs. What is the diagnosis?

2407. In a case of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) regarding organ donation, which statement is correct?

2408. What is the benefit of using steroids at the initiation of meningitis treatment?

2409. A patient is comatose, with retinal findings typical for neuro-retinitis. What is the diagnosis?

2410. A 16-year-old boy has behavior issues, and his teacher reports a decrease in performance in school. He also sleeps a lot. What condition might be indicated by an EEG showing signs of subacute sclerosing panencephalitis (SSPE)?

2411. Which of the following is a common complication of cerebral malaria?

2412. Q131. A male patient from Africa, an illegal resident in Saudi Arabia, was brought to the hospital after not eating well for a long time. He presented with headache and fever. CSF analysis showed elevated WBC (571, monoclonal cells predominant), high protein, and low glucose. Gram stain showed no organism. Which of the following is the most likely cause of his condition?

2413. What is the most common cause of bacterial meningitis?

2414. An HIV‐positive patient with a history of poor compliance on HAART presents with subacute cognitive decline and MRI findings consistent with progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML). What should be done next?

2415. Q157. What is the most common cause of polyradiculopathy, without mention of immune status?

2416. Whipple disease is caused by which of the following organisms?

2417. Patient found to have positive poliovirus IgG, what is the most common presentation?

2418. Q17. A patient with a known case of diabetes mellitus presents with a black spot on the nose. What is the best management option?

2419. In a scenario of mucormycosis, what is the route of infection?

2420. A patient with HIV presents with confusion. A CT scan shows multiple enhancing masses in the brain. Upon performing a lumbar puncture and CSF analysis, which test should you consider sending?

2421. A patient has bilateral facial weakness, and a lumbar puncture showed high white blood cell count. A picture showed erythema migrans. What is the treatment?

2422. In a case of bacterial meningitis, what is the most common organism responsible?

2423. What is the most common sporadic fatal viral meningoencephalitis worldwide?

2424. In a case of HSV encephalitis, what would you expect to find in the CSF?

2425. An HIV patient has an MRI typical for neurocysticercosis. What is the cause?

2426. What is true about herpes encephalitis?

2427. A patient presents with personality changes, headaches, and increased thirst for months. MRI shows hyperintensity in the cortical, subcortical, and cerebellar areas, with CSF analysis revealing low glucose, high protein (58 mg/dL), and lymphocytic predominance. What is the likely cause?

2428. An elderly patient with a sinus infection presents with meningitis. What is the appropriate treatment?

2429. Patient came with orange retina; what is the diagnosis?

2430. Malaria is caused by which species when the CNS is involved?

2431. What is the most common site of infection in neural infections?

2432. A 21-year-old female, pregnant at 27 weeks and living on a dairy farm, presents with a history of meningitis and shock. CSF analysis shows high WBC count around 9000, high protein, and glucose of 19. What is the best empirical antibiotic treatment?

2433. What is the most common cause of sporadic fatal meningoencephalitis?

2434. A patient with HIV and a CD4 count of 60 presents with a single ring-enhancing lesion at the white–grey matter junction and minimal edema. What is the next step in management?

2435. Q161. A 35-year-old female has a history of back pain and progressive weakness, with normal brain and spine MRI. She mentioned that she came from Africa. What is the most likely diagnosis?

2436. In a patient with HIV presenting with progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML), what is the recommended treatment?

2437. What is the most common location of Varicella Zoster Virus (VZV) in the neuronal axis?

2438. In an HIV patient with multiple ring-enhancing lesions, which statement is true?

2439. What is the duration of acyclovir that will most likely decrease the chance of HSV recurrence?

2440. An elderly patient developed a painful Herpes Zoster rash. Five days after the pain subsided, she developed confusion and encephalopathy. She was prescribed analgesia medication for her pain. What is the diagnosis?

2441. A middle-aged male patient with a history of headache reports fever, night sweats, and weight loss a few weeks ago. An MRI of the brain with contrast was performed. He has a history of head injury from a few years ago. What is the most likely diagnosis?

2442. A young patient with a history of CNS infection presents with fever and CSF pleocytosis. Cultures and gram stains are negative, and HSV PCR is also negative. What is the next step in management?

2443. A patient was brought to the emergency department with fever and confusion. Later, he developed a seizure, and an MRI of the brain shows hyperintensity in the left temporal lobe. What is expected to be found on CSF analysis?

2444. Oculomasticatory myorhythmia is diagnosed by which of the following?

2445. A patient presents with weight loss and fever. MRI shows a frontal epidural collection. What is the most likely diagnosis?

2446. Q114. A young Indian lady, who works as a nurse, was brought by her friend complaining of a headache for a few days, then developed new-onset seizures. An MRI of the brain showed multiple cysts. What is the diagnosis?

2447. A 40-year-old man is seen in the emergency department for evaluation of retinal hemorrhage, hepatosplenomegaly, headache, fever every 3 days, and right arm weakness. On examination, his temperature is 38.1°C. He has some weakness of the right arm; otherwise, his examination is non-focal. He recently arrived from Africa. Which of the following is a highly diagnostic test?

2448. A patient with neurobrucellosis is typically treated with which of the following antibiotics during the first 1–2 months?

2449. An HIV patient has an MRI that is typical for toxoplasmosis. What is the recommended treatment?

2450. Q82. A patient from India is found to have schistosomiasis. What is the recommended treatment?

2451. An HIV patient who is non-compliant with his medication has an MRI that showed non-enhanced posterior hyperintensities. What is the treatment?

2452. A 19-year-old man is hospitalized in a psychiatric ward after developing visual and auditory hallucinations. He has a seizure soon after being admitted and is transferred to the emergency room. There, he is postictal and noted to have a fever and meningeal signs. What is the most likely diagnosis?

2453. A patient presents with features of mucormycosis, including a black nasal mass with maxillary pain and bilateral cavernous sinus involvement. What is the mechanism of infection?

2454. A patient with meningitis, who came from Alhaj, was found to have meningococcal meningitis. What is the appropriate prophylactic antibiotic for close contacts?

2455. A 40-year-old man is seen in the emergency department for evaluation of retinal hemorrhage, hepatosplenomegaly, headache, fever every 3 days, and right arm weakness. On examination, his temperature is 38.1°C. He has some weakness of the right arm; otherwise, his examination is nonfocal. He recently arrived from Africa. Which of the following is a highly diagnostic test?

2456. A young Saudi male, studying in Africa, just returned with symptoms of radiculopathy. CSF analysis showed eosinophilia, and MRI revealed hyperintense conus medullaris. Diagnosis of Schistosomiasis was confirmed by lab workup. What is the best treatment?

2457. A 10- or 12-year-old female is brought by her family for complaints of progressive decline in school performance and abnormal behavior. Her family took her to a psychiatrist who prescribed antipsychotics. After that, her condition worsened and she became unresponsive. EEG showed periodic bursts. MRI of the brain showed large areas of a signal (diffuse cortical/subcortical) process. Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?

2458. Q87. A female patient diagnosed with HIV came to the clinic for evaluation of possible associated peripheral neuropathy. What is the most common type of peripheral neuropathy associated with HIV?

2459. In the same scenario of mucormycosis, what is the recommended treatment?

2460. In the case of HSV encephalitis, what is the recommended duration of Acyclovir treatment?

2461. A young male presented with headache and fever. A CT of the brain was normal. A lumbar puncture was performed, and CSF analysis showed WBCs 48, RBCs 780, normal protein, and glucose. What is the most likely interpretation?

2462. Q121. A 10- or 12-year-old female is brought by her family for complaints of progressive decline in school performance and abnormal behavior. Her family took her to a psychiatrist who prescribed antipsychotics. After that, her condition worsened and she became unresponsive. EEG showed periodic bursts. MRI of the brain showed large areas of a signal (diffuse cortical/subcortical) process. Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?

2463. In the same scenario of mucormycosis, what is the recommended treatment?

2464. A female patient diagnosed with HIV came to the clinic for evaluation of possible associated peripheral neuropathy. What is the most common type of peripheral neuropathy associated with HIV?

2465. A patient presents with features of mucormycosis, including a black nasal mass with maxillary pain and bilateral cavernous sinus involvement. What is the mechanism of infection?

2466. A young lady with SLE nephritis on dialysis presents with seizures and confusion. CSF analysis shows high cell count with high-grade fever, and MRI shows high signals in the temporal lobe. What is your diagnosis?

2467. A patient with meningitis, who came from Alhaj, was found to have meningococcal meningitis. What is the appropriate prophylactic antibiotic for close contacts?

2468. Q130. A patient from Sudan presents with fluctuating high fever, altered mental status (AMS), and anemia. What is the recommended treatment?

2469. A young male presented with headache and fever. A CT of the brain was normal. A lumbar puncture was performed, and CSF analysis showed WBCs 48, RBCs 780, normal protein, and glucose. What is the most likely interpretation?

2470. In the case of HSV encephalitis, what is the recommended duration of Acyclovir treatment?

2471. Q280. TB affected which brain vessel?

2472. An Indian patient presents with seizures and multiple small brain lesions. What is the most likely diagnosis?

2473. Q231. A patient presented with meningitis. What should be given?

2474. A patient presents with headache, vomiting, fever, and nuchal rigidity two weeks after undergoing a decompressive craniotomy for Chiari malformation. What is the most likely causative organism?

2475. In cases of Schistosoma Mansonia infection, what is the most common presentation?

2476. Q119. A patient diagnosed with meningococcal meningitis has family members asking about prevention and disease transmission. What is the correct information to provide?

2477. Q220. A patient came from Africa with fever and neurological symptoms. What is the most appropriate initial diagnostic test?

2478. Q340. An Indian nurse presented with a new-onset generalized tonic–clonic seizure. MRI FLAIR images demonstrated a parenchymal cystic lesion with peripheral calcifications. Which of the following organisms is the most likely cause?

2479. What percentage of individuals infected with HTLV-1 will develop neurologic disease?

2480. Q175. The best way to prevent post-herpetic neuralgia is?

2481. A patient with a typical history of CJD has a family that wants him to be in an organ donation program. What is the best action?

2482. Q452. What is the most common presentation of poliovirus infection?

2483. Q70. A ?? year-old female was brought by her family for the complaint of progressive decline in school performance and abnormal behavior over the last 3 months. Her condition worsened, and she became unresponsive. EEG showed periodic bursts and high voltage waves. Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?

2484. An Indian nurse presented with her first seizure and a history of headache one week prior. She was labeled as having a tension headache. What is the most likely diagnosis based on the CT findings?

2485. A man with multiple cognitive domain involvement has ataxia and extrapyramidal features, with pathology showing PrPSc amyloid plaques. What type of prion disease does he have?

2486. An HIV patient has an MRI typical for neurocysticercosis. What is the cause?

2487. A patient presents with fever and meningismus, and an MRI shows left temporal hyperintensity. What would you expect to find in the CSF?

2488. Q416. A governmental clerk presents with meningitis. What is the most common organism responsible for this condition?

2489. Q402. What is the most common organism responsible for bacterial meningitis?

2490. Q441. In a scenario of mucormycosis with black nasal discharge, what is the recommended treatment?

2491. Q152. What is the most common pattern of neuropathy seen in HIV patients?

2492. Q282. What is the prevention of postherpetic neuralgia?

2493. Q36. A patient with encephalopathy, EEG showed slow bilateral synchronous high amplitude spikes. What is the likely cause?

2494. Q339. When should metronidazole be added to treatment?

2495. Q297. (Source: Part II 2022mcqs.txt; Originally Neuromuscular) Retinal finding suggestive of malaria, orange vessels, red spots. What is the diagnosis?

2496. Q296. What is a poor prognostic indicator for brain abscess?

2497. A patient presents with confusion, lymphadenopathy, and flaccid paralysis. What is the likely organism?

2498. What is the most common area affected in TB vasculopathy?

2499. An HIV patient’s MRI showed multiple brain abscesses. What is the causing organism?

2500. A patient has bilateral facial weakness and lumbar puncture shows high white blood cell count. A picture shows erythema migrans. What is the treatment?

2501. An HIV patient with a CD4 count of 5 and a viral load in the thousands develops parkinsonism with basal ganglia involvement. What is the most likely cause?

2502. In the case of a brain abscess, what is a poor prognostic factor?

2503. An HIV patient non-compliant with his medication had an MRI that showed non-enhanced posterior hyperintensities. What is the treatment?

2504. Q107. A patient with HIV develops meningitis. What additional medication should be given with ceftriaxone?

2505. In a patient with cognitive impairment following a herpes zoster infection, what is the most likely diagnosis?

2506. A patient has Normal Pressure Hydrocephalus (NPH) and abdominal tuberculosis. What is the next step?

2507. A government clerk developed meningitis. What is the most likely organism responsible for this condition?

2508. A heroin abuser presents with severe back pain and tenderness, along with fever. What is the most likely organism found?

2509. A government clerk developed meningitis. What is the most likely organism responsible for this condition?

2510. In a patient suspected of having Progressive Multifocal Leukoencephalopathy (PML), what is the most appropriate tool for investigation?

2511. What is the most common organism associated with infections in patients with external ventricular drains (EVD)?

2512. A child presented with chorea, has a history of flu a few weeks ago for which she received antibiotics. What test should be ordered for her? (Sydenham chorea)

2513. A patient from Tanzania presents with jaundice, low platelet count, anemia, confusion, fever, and CSF showing high lymphocytes with normal glucose levels. What is the most likely diagnosis?

2514. A 70-year-old male was brought to the ER with fever, confusion, and drowsiness. CSF analysis showed bacterial infection. What is the appropriate treatment?

2515. An Indian patient came with a headache. He is known to have epilepsy and is on medications. A CT brain scan is attached showing multiple, round, ring-enhancing lesions with an eccentric hyperdense dot sign and perilesional edema. What is the most likely diagnosis?

2516. A 27-year-old pregnant woman living on a dairy farm presents with fever and neck stiffness. How should she be treated?

2517. A 40-year-old man is seen in the emergency department for evaluation of retinal hemorrhage, hepatosplenomegaly, headache, fever every 3 days, and right arm weakness. On examination, his temperature is 38.1°C. He has some weakness of the right arm; otherwise, his examination is non-focal. He recently arrived from Africa. Which of the following is a highly diagnostic test?

2518. In a girl with Sydenham chorea, what laboratory test is most relevant?

2519. A female patient with multiple sclerosis (MS) on Natalizumab presents with hemiparesis and hemianopia. MRI shows a subcortical white matter mass with no enhancement. What will you do?

2520. What is the duration of acyclovir treatment in HSV encephalitis?

2521. A 40-year-old female, originally from Africa, presents with a history of back pain, gradual bilateral weakness, numbness, and sphincter issues. CSF analysis shows unpaired bands of OCB. MRI reveals long extensive T2 hyperintensity from the thoracic region to the cauda equina. What is the differential diagnosis?

2522. Which of the following statements is true regarding Primary Amoebic Meningoencephalitis (PAM)?

2523. A patient from Africa presents with a Brucella infection. What is the recommended treatment?

2524. Infection with retinal whitening and orange spots is most commonly associated with which organism?

2525. A middle‐aged male patient with a history of headache reports fever, night sweats, and weight loss. An MRI of the brain with contrast was performed. He also has a history of head injury a few years ago. What is the most likely diagnosis?

2526. What is the typical treatment approach for a patient diagnosed with West Nile virus encephalitis?

2527. A patient known to have MS on interferon therapy shifted to natalizumab after recurrent relapses. She developed cognitive impairment and dysarthria over 2 months. What is the most likely diagnosis?

2528. In a case of Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease (CJD) with a cortical ribbon sign on MRI, what is the next best step in management?

2529. Q89. What is the most common cause of polyradiculoneuropathy?

2530. A patient with meningitis and a positive titer for Brucella requires treatment. What is the most appropriate antibiotic?

2531. Q293. A 64-year-old man is brought to the emergency room by his family for fever and headache. On examination, his temperature is 39.1°C and he appears uncomfortable. He has resistance to passive range of motion of the neck and difficulty maintaining his level of alertness, but no focal deficits are seen. Which of the following is the most appropriate empiric regimen of antibiotics?

2532. A patient presents with flaccid weakness and no sensory symptoms. What is the most likely cause?

2533. An 11-year-old girl is referred with rapidly deteriorating school performance and intellectual deficits over a course of a few weeks. She also has frequent seizures and unsteady gait. On examination, she has ataxia, hyperreflexia, and bilateral upgoing plantar responses. An EEG shows periodic bursts of high-voltage slow waves followed by recurrent low-voltage stretches. Clinically, she is worsening with an on-off lethargic state. A brain MRI shows large areas of signal change. What is the most likely diagnosis?

2534. What is the most common cause of spinal epidural abscess?

2535. A patient with HIV has multiple brain MRI lesions. What is the most likely diagnosis?

2536. A patient with a known case of congenital heart disease presents with headache, fever, and hemiparesis. What will you do next?

2537. What is the most common artery affected in TB vasculopathy?

2538. An elderly patient came with low-grade fever, meningism, encephalopathy, and acute flaccid paralysis. What is your diagnosis?

2539. What is the best treatment to prevent post-herpetic neuralgia?

2540. A patient had meningococcal meningitis. What medication should be given to his family for prophylaxis?

2541. In the context of West Nile virus infection, which of the following is a common clinical feature?

2542. Q39. In neurosyphilis, which of the following can be associated?

2543. What is the most common brain abscess in patients with HIV?

2544. A patient with a typical history of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) has a family that wants him to be in the organ donation program; what is the best action?

2545. What is the first thing to do in case of acute meningitis when the patient arrives at the emergency room?

2546. A patient with HIV presents with pain radiating to the back. MRI of the spine is negative, and CSF is negative. What is the most likely diagnosis?

2547. A stroke patient has a fever, and cardiac consultation shows a pansystolic murmur. What is the treatment?

2548. Q265. In a patient with HIV on HAART presenting with multiple lesions with ring enhancement, which of the following treatments is appropriate?

2549. Q12. A patient presents with orange retinal structures. Which of the following conditions could be responsible? (Possibly referring to histoplasmosis scars or other infectious/inflammatory causes)

2550. A patient presents with retinal whitening and an orange spot. Which of the following infections could be the cause?

2551. Q15. What is the most common route of spread for an epidural abscess?

2552. Patient came with orange retina; what is the diagnosis?

2553. Light-near dissociation is most commonly described in which of the following conditions?

2554. A patient with HIV presents with a 1-month history of bilateral lower extremity weakness and numbness, without back pain. What is the pathogenesis of the spinal cord disease that developed?

2555. Q554. What is a common nerve conduction study (NCS) or electromyography (EMG) finding in ALS?

2556. Q19. What are the histological findings observed in a case of dermatomyositis?

2557. The typical age of onset for Hyperkalemic Periodic Paralysis is:

2558. Q561. A 34-year-old man had difficulty climbing stairs and respiratory difficulties requiring BiPap. What is the most likely cause?

2559. Q458. In a scenario about a patient with eosinophils on pathology, what condition is suggested?

2560. Q69. What percentage of patients with ocular Myasthenia Gravis have positive AChR-binding antibodies?

2561. A post-bariatric surgery patient presents with symptoms of vitamin B12 deficiency, but serum levels are normal. What should be administered?

2562. Q30. Case of a patient with weak hip adductors, which nerve is affected?

2563. A patient diagnosed with breast cancer underwent chemotherapy and radiation. An EMG showed myokymia and the patient presented with plexopathy. What is your diagnosis?

2564. A 34-year-old man has progressive difficulty climbing stairs and respiratory difficulties requiring BiPAP support. What is the most likely cause?

2565. In the scenario of Kennedy disease (gynecomastia and family history), which of the following is correct?

2566. What type of muscle biopsy finding is associated with Kearns-Sayre Syndrome?

2567. Q157. A patient with myotonia is being evaluated. Which of the following conditions is associated with myotonia?

2568. In a patient with painful diabetic neuropathy who is nonambulatory and has severe spasticity, which treatment is most likely to provide relief?

2569. Q21. Peripheral neuropathy case: what is the antibody?

2570. A patient presents with bilateral foot drop and left ulnar neuropathy with abductor digiti minimi weakness, progressive over 3 months. Nerve conduction studies showed conduction block in the ulnar nerve and deep peroneal nerve at the head of the fibula. What is the diagnosis?

2571. A patient with polymyalgia rheumatica is on steroids (5 mg) post-myocardial infarction and is also taking atorvastatin (40 mg). The patient presents with proximal muscle weakness and cannot rise from a seated position, with a creatine kinase level of 1880. What is the next step in management?

2572. A young lady presents with weakness in knee extension and numbness in the medial aspect of the thigh. Which lower limb nerve is likely affected?

2573. Q497. A patient with myasthenia gravis and thymus hyperplasia is on pyridostigmine and is experiencing worsening generalized weakness. What is the recommended next step in management?

2574. Typical scenario of Myasthenia Gravis in a young lady with fluctuating ptosis. What is the best serological test in this case?

2575. When should Guillain-Barré syndrome be suspected?

2576. In a scenario of Acute Inflammatory Demyelinating Polyneuropathy (AIDP) on day 5, what will the nerve conduction study (NCS) show?

2577. A patient presents with generalized weakness, bilateral ptosis, respiratory involvement, and areflexia. What additional finding would you expect?

2578. In hyperkalemic periodic paralysis, which of the following is a characteristic feature?

2579. Which of the following is a characteristic feature of Kearns-Sayre Syndrome (KSS)?

2580. A patient presents with right upper limb weakness and intrinsic hand muscle atrophy with diminished deep tendon reflexes. What is the most likely diagnosis?

2581. Which of the following is assessed in the examination of femoral nerve function?

2582. Which of the following may be elevated in patients with Kearns–Sayre syndrome?

2583. A patient who underwent radiation therapy for breast cancer 28 months ago presents with numbness in the 3rd and 4th fingers and arm pain. What is the next best step in management?

2584. Q13. Which condition is characterized by myotonia that worsens with exercise?

2585. A typical case of Hirayama disease presents with right upper limb weakness with preserved brachioradialis and minimal weakness in the left upper limb. What is the associated finding in this patient?

2586. In a patient with Acute Inflammatory Demyelinating Polyneuropathy (AIDP), what is the characteristic clinical finding?

2587. A case about ulnar nerve injury presents with claw hand. What is the likely diagnosis?

2588. In patients with generalized Myasthenia Gravis, positive AChR-binding antibodies are found in what percentage of cases?

2589. A patient with a picture of limb-girdle muscular dystrophy (LGMD) underwent three surgeries under general anesthesia without complications. His brother developed malignant hyperthermia after a procedure. What should be communicated to the patient?

2590. A pregnant lady presents with hyperemesis gravidarum and sensory disturbances in her distal limbs. What is the likely cause?

2591. A 50+ year old male presents with weakness in hand flexors and quadriceps. What is the diagnosis?

2592. Q254. What percentage of Guillain-Barré syndrome patients experience recurrence?

2593. A patient presents with clear symptoms of periodic paralysis lasting for hours. What is the next test that should be performed?

2594. In the context of periodic paralysis, which of the following statements is true regarding serum potassium levels?

2595. Q33. Scenario of progressive bulbar palsy: what is the diagnosis?

2596. A patient presents with upper extremity painful neuropathy and atrophy. What is the recommended treatment?

2597. A 35-year-old obese female has delayed muscle relaxation, complains of tingling in her hands, and has slight bradycardia in her vital signs. What investigation should be done?

2598. What is the effect of cold in hypokalemic periodic paralysis?

2599. Q63. In congenital myasthenia gravis, which channel types are involved?

2600. An elderly patient with volar hand weakness may be suspected of having which condition?

2601. Which of the following conditions is characterized by paralysis that typically occurs in the first to second decade of life and predominantly affects males?

2602. In an elderly patient presenting with neuropathy and weakness, which of the following is a recommended diagnostic procedure if amyloidosis is suspected?

2603. A patient presents with hand stiffness that worsens and becomes weak with exercise and cold. What is the diagnosis?

2604. A 55-year-old male has a history of lower limb weakness for days, initially starting with numbness and tingling. Days later, the weakness involved the upper limbs and was associated with hyperhidrosis in the lower limbs and facial involvement. He also has a history of epigastric pain. Examination shows bilateral lower limb weakness. He received an influenza vaccine 2 weeks prior to the onset of symptoms. What is the diagnosis?

2605. A patient with an acetabular fracture presents post-admission with inability to dorsiflex his right foot and decreased sensation over the dorsum of the right foot. Which structure is most likely injured?

2606. In a scenario of Acute Inflammatory Demyelinating Polyneuropathy (AIDP) on day 5, what will the nerve conduction study (NCS) show?

2607. What is the most sensitive test to diagnose myasthenia gravis (MG)?

2608. A patient with ALS presents with fatigue. What is the next best step in management?

2609. A case of Bell’s palsy underwent EMG. Which muscle is likely to show findings?

2610. Which of the following electrodiagnostic tests is most helpful in the diagnosis of periodic paralysis?

2611. Anti-MuSK Myasthenia gravis is characterized by which of the following features?

2612. A patient has muscle stiffness that worsens with exercise. What is the likely diagnosis?

2613. Most common presentation of post-polio syndrome:

2614. A patient with back pain radiating to the left lower limb and normal ankle reflexes is evaluated. Which muscle is involved?

2615. What is the nerve supply to the sartorius muscle?

2616. A 38-year-old male presents with a history of generalized weakness, a “spring” face, and respiratory issues. Examination reveals hyporeflexia. He came to the ER and received potassium supplements, but he continues to have weekly attacks. His serum potassium is 2.6 mEq/L (low). What is the most accurate long-term management?

2617. A patient with a picture of Myasthenia Gravis (eye, proximal weakness, and bulbar symptoms) and a flat tongue. Which of the following antibodies is supposed to be positive?

2618. How to differentiate between C8 and ulnar neuropathy?

2619. Most common presentation of post-polio syndrome:

2620. A poorly controlled type 1 diabetic male with an HbA1c of 14% became controlled one week ago and started to complain of pain. What is the best management option?

2621. What is the characteristic clinical presentation of Multifocal Motor Neuropathy (MMN)?

2622. In a scenario with congenital myasthenia gravis, where the patient has hand involvement and proximal upper and lower limb weakness, what is the likely diagnosis?

2623. Q127. A patient presented with back pain, facial sweating, and intermittent epigastric pain associated with progressive distal sensory loss and weakness. What is the diagnosis?

2624. Q41. A 70-year-old male patient came with progressive spastic lower limb weakness that progressed over time to involve the upper limb, with fasciculations present. What is the most likely diagnosis?

2625. Q342. In a scenario about a patient with static weakness sparing the brachioradialis, what would you expect to see on MRI?

2626. In a case of limb girdle muscular dystrophy type 2A, what is the recommended diagnostic test?

2627. In a patient with Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS), what is a characteristic finding on EMG?

2628. An infant with hypotonia, macroglossia, feeding problems, trouble breathing, muscle weakness, and an enlarged heart. What is the defective enzyme?

2629. What is the most common cause of femoral neuropathy?

2630. Kearns-Sayre syndrome

2631. Q47. A case with features of POEMS presents with lower limb edema and neuropathy. What is the likely associated factor?

2632. Q544. In a scenario of AIDP, what are the early findings in nerve conduction studies (NCS)?

2633. In the management of acute attacks of hypokalemic periodic paralysis, potassium is typically given orally at what dosage?

2634. EMG

2635. What is one of the diagnostic criteria for Guillain-Barré syndrome?

2636. A diabetic patient presents with features of small fiber neuropathy (pain worse at night, intact reflexes). What is the best treatment?

2637. Distal acquired demyelinating symmetric neuropathy (DADS) is characterized by which of the following?

2638. An anti-MuSK patient who developed hepatotoxicity with azathioprine, what medication should be given?

2639. Vitamin B6 deficiency can lead to which type of peripheral neuropathy?

2640. A patient presents with left wrist drop and has a history of right wrist drop that improved, as well as a right foot drop. She has a positive family history of similar presentations. Which of the following genes is expected to be found?

2641. A patient has a fracture in the acetabulum and notices numbness on the dorsum of the foot with weak dorsiflexion. Where is the lesion likely located?

2642. What is commonly associated with anti-MuSK antibodies?

2643. In congenital myasthenic syndromes, what is the gene defect that causes worsening of symptoms with acetylcholinesterase inhibitors?

2644. A 40-year-old male patient presents with left arm weakness, thenar and hypothenar atrophy, fasciculations, and normal sensory examination. What is the likely diagnosis?

2645. A patient presents with channelopathy. What is the best workup?

2646. Q61. What is the effect of oral potassium in the management of Hypokalemic Periodic Paralysis?

2647. A patient who underwent bariatric surgery developed progressive weakness and a large‐fiber peripheral neuropathy, with normal serum B12 and methylmalonic acid levels. What is the most likely nutritional deficiency?

2648. A patient develops myotonia after repetitive exercise and subsequently experiences weakness. There is a positive family history. What is the most likely diagnosis?

2649. What is a common presenting feature of Multifocal Motor Neuropathy (MMN)?

2650. A patient with dysferlinopathy presents with a CK level elevated 35 times the normal and mild upper limb weakness, mainly in the lower limbs, with significant calf atrophy and weak dorsiflexion. What is the likely diagnosis?

2651. A young man who had abdominal pain around 1 week back and had a flu vaccine recently presented with a 5-day history of progressive distal dysesthesias and facial hyperhidrosis. Later on, he was tripping while walking and had weakness with decreased DTR on examination. What is the diagnosis?

2652. A male patient with diabetes who is on metformin and has multiple comorbidities developed anemia with high MCV and neuropathy. What is the mechanism of developing this neuropathy?

2653. A patient with symptoms suggestive of chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy (CIDP) was not responding to intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG) and was found to have positive neurofascin-155 antibodies. What is the treatment for this patient?

2654. In a scenario of AIDP, what are the early findings in NCS?

2655. A young lady post-vaginal hysterectomy presents with weakness in hip adductors and hip flexion. Which nerve is likely affected?

2656. Q530. In a scenario typical for paramyotonia congenita, what is the gene involved?

2657. In a Guillain-Barré syndrome scenario, what is the predicting factor for intubation?

2658. A 40-year-old female has proximal muscle weakness and progressive dysphagia. On examination, she has a weak cough and edematous eyes. What is the treatment? (This case is suggestive of dermatomyositis.)

2659. Q539. A young patient came with weakness and is unable to extend his elbow and has toe walking; ECG showed RBBB. What is the diagnosis?

2660. Which factor is known to trigger an attack in Paramyotonia Congenita?

2661. A patient came with channelopathy. What is the best workup?

2662. A patient with Sjögren's disease presents with neurological symptoms. Which of the following is a possible presentation?

2663. An infant presents with respiratory issues, electrical myotonia, and macroglossia. What is the likely diagnosis?

2664. A female patient presents with right Bell’s palsy. You performed the blink reflex test, and the EMG showed axonal injury. Which muscle is involved?

2665. A 52-year-old female with dyslipidemia on a statin was admitted with pneumonia. After starting erythromycin, she developed proximal muscle weakness and elevated creatine kinase. Which factor most directly increased her risk of toxic myopathy?

2666. A clear scenario about MMN presents with severe weakness and no atrophy, asking about the diagnosis, but there are no NCS findings. What is the likely diagnosis?

2667. What is the most common myopathy in elderly individuals above 50 years of age?

2668. What is the most common myopathy disease in patients above 50 years of age?

2669. A typical scenario of a patient presents with decreased sensation and bilateral weakness in the lower limbs with areflexia. The patient had a history of diarrhea 10 days prior. What is the diagnosis?

2670. A lady with a history of treated breast cancer presents with one week of numbness in the 4th and 5th digits, and weakness in her hand and forearm. A chest and neck CT is normal. What should be done next?

2671. A patient wakes up from sleep with right upper limb pain followed by weakness and multiple nerve involvement. What is the likely diagnosis?

2672. A patient presents with subacute flaccid quadriplegia following diarrheal illnesses, with sparing of the face and sensation. What is the most likely diagnosis?

2673. Scenario of recurrent painless multifocal mononeuropathies at common compression sites. PMP-22 deletion was detected. What is the expected biopsy finding?

2674. Q50. A typical case of Hirayama disease presents with right upper limb weakness, preserved brachioradialis, and minimal weakness in the left upper limb. What is the associated finding in this patient?

2675. Q79. Which of the following is a function of the femoral nerve?

2676. Q526. What is the first-line treatment for Acute Inflammatory Demyelinating Polyneuropathy (AIDP)?

2677. A patient presents with weakness that is induced by cold exposure. Which channel is likely affected?

2678. A young man played football for one day, developed generalized weakness mainly in the proximal limbs, and the next day his urine changed color to dark brown and he had muscle pain. What is the most likely cause?

2679. A 16-year-old presented with calf hypertrophy. Which of the following conditions is most likely?

2680. What is the recommended treatment for Inclusion Body Myositis (IBM)?

2681. In a case of dysautonomia with carpal tunnel syndrome (CTS), what is the most appropriate diagnostic test?

2682. In congenital Myotonic dystrophy type 1 (DM1), which of the following symptoms is typically absent on EMG?

2683. In a case of a patient with colchicine toxicity–induced myopathy, who presents with high CK levels and EMG findings of prominent fibrillations, positive sharp waves, and excessively polyphasic motor action potentials in the proximal muscles that are brief and small in amplitude, what is the cause?

2684. A young man came to the ER who went to sleep at 10 PM and woke up at midnight with weakness in his whole body, which resolved after a few hours. His history is recurrent with sparing of cranial nerves and respiratory muscles. What is the most useful test to be done?

2685. Q482. A young patient presents with proximal painful weakness, and a biopsy result shows CD+8 lymphocytes. What is the likely diagnosis?

2686. Which of the following muscles is innervated by the ulnar nerve?

2687. A patient presents with moderate muscle weakness, hyperkeratosis on the hands, and lung crackles. What is the most likely antibody associated with this condition?

2688. A 55-year-old patient presented with ptosis, extraocular muscle weakness, dysphagia, and proximal weakness. What is the most likely genetic abnormality?

2689. A young woman who was recently diagnosed with diabetes mellitus (DM) was not controlled at all after admission to the hospital with diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA) and an HbA1c of 14. After her blood sugar was controlled adequately, she developed peripheral painful neuropathy. What is the recommended treatment?

2690. Q136. A 40-year-old previously healthy male developed gastrointestinal symptoms, then had generalized weakness and decreased reflexes. He has bilateral ptosis and dilated pupils. What is the diagnosis?

2691. A patient presents with peripheral neuropathy and transient central nervous system (CNS) symptoms. Which condition is most likely?

2692. Q81. In Paramyotonia Congenita, the effect of cold exposure is:

2693. In a scenario of Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 2 (CMT2), what would you find?

2694. In Hyperkalemic Periodic Paralysis, the duration of paralysis is typically:

2695. A 31-year-old male has hand grip myotonia, facial weakness, significant atrophy of facial muscles, ptosis without ophthalmoplegia, and distal arm weakness. What else is associated?

2696. In a case of Spinal Muscular Atrophy (SMA), which of the following is a supportive finding?

2697. In hypokalemic periodic paralysis, which of the following is true regarding the incidence of paralysis?

2698. If single-fiber EMG is normal in clinically affected muscles, what can be concluded?

2699. Spinobulbar muscular atrophy (Kennedy's Disease) is primarily caused by which genetic mutation?

2700. In Parsonage-Turner syndrome, which plexus is affected?

2701. In a scenario about dermatomyositis, which antibody is associated with the condition?

2702. Q16. A case scenario about central core myopathy mentions a family history of malignant hyperthermia. What is the most likely diagnosis?

2703. A 55-year-old patient presented with progressive numbness and burning sensation in the lower limbs, along with two cutaneous nodules—one in the upper trunk and one on the scalp. There are no autonomic features, normal reflexes, and normal proprioception. What is the diagnosis?

2704. What is the most common myopathy in patients older than 50 years?

2705. In a case scenario of POEMS syndrome, what will you find in the serum?

2706. A female patient complains of hand numbness that wakes her from sleep and improves with shaking her hand. What is the likely diagnosis?

2707. A patient presents with flaccid weakness. What is a possible cause?

2708. A patient post hip replacement surgery presents with right lower limb weakness. Examination showed hip flexion and extension 5/5, foot dorsiflexion 0/5, plantarflexion 3/5 with sensory loss of the lateral leg. EMG/NCS showed involvement of the anterior tibial, gastrocnemius, and short head of biceps femoris. What is the most likely injured nerve?

2709. A patient with typical features of myasthenia gravis has negative ACHR antibody and Anti-MUSK tests. What lab investigation should be sent next to confirm the diagnosis?

2710. Q121. A 55-year-old patient is complaining of generalized weakness, weight gain, and tingling in her hands. She has slight bradycardia and on examination, she had delayed relaxation with deep tendon reflexes. What test should be ordered?

2711. In a patient with median nerve conduction studies (NCS) at the elbow and wrist, what is the likely finding?

2712. A patient with Limb-Girdle Muscular Dystrophy (LGMD) and a positive family history is likely to have which of the following conditions?

2713. In a case of acute inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy (AIDP) with prior diarrhea 4 weeks ago, what type is indicated if only motor function is affected with intact sensory function?

2714. A male patient presented with symptoms suggestive of proximal muscle weakness. He has two cousins with the same presentation. EMG showed prolonged motor unit action potentials (MUAPs). Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?

2715. Q109. A 50-year-old male patient is complaining of chronic progressive bilateral ptosis associated with difficulty swallowing and difficulty speaking. On physical examination, he has mild weakness over shoulder and pelvic muscles bilaterally. Muscle biopsy shows internuclear tubular filaments. Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?

2716. A male patient presented to the outpatient clinic for evaluation of limb weakness. He has upper limb weakness that started 6 years ago, initially affecting the right hand and progressively involving all three limbs. On physical examination, he has muscle atrophy, absent triceps reflex, and intact brachioradialis reflex. Sensory examination was normal. Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?

2717. A patient on statin therapy develops necrotizing myositis. What is the most likely cause?

2718. A case of Facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy is presented. What is the likely diagnosis?

2719. What is a potential early complication of Guillain-Barré syndrome?

2720. Which of the following is a treatment option for Guillain-Barré syndrome?

2721. A patient presents with multifocal mononeuropathy multiplex. A sural nerve biopsy reveals vessel wall necrosis with transmural inflammatory cell infiltrates. What is the most likely diagnosis?

2722. A young female presented with dilated pupils, dysphagia, and descending weakness; what is the diagnosis?

2723. Q123. In a case of Dermatomyositis, which of the following findings is typically observed?

2724. Q57. Which muscle is tested in L5 EMG testing?

2725. Paramyotonia is associated with which type of channel?

2726. A child presented with proximal muscle weakness and was diagnosed with laminopathy (or LMNA mutation) based on genetic testing. What is expected to be seen in examination?

2727. A patient presents with weak facial muscles (cannot blow air) and weakness in the arm flexors and extensors, along with right foot drop and winging of the scapula. What is the most likely diagnosis?

2728. Q75. A nerve conduction study (NCS) shows a drop in amplitude. Which of the following could explain this finding?

2729. In paramyotonia congenita, what clinical feature is observed in cold conditions?

2730. A patient is admitted with proximal myopathy and high CK levels (around 6000). A biopsy shows necrotizing pathology. Which of the following factors would increase the risk of this condition in the patient?

2731. In a case of inclusion body myositis (IBM), what are the histology findings?

2732. Q461. In LGMD1B, what physical findings are typically observed?

2733. The chromosome associated with the genetic basis of Hyperkalemic Periodic Paralysis is:

2734. Q501. A patient presents with gradual proximal weakness, has a history of being on a statin and 5 mg of steroids for several years. Laboratory tests show CK levels at 1800 U/L, and NCS/EMG reveals fibrillation potentials and reduced motor unit action potential amplitudes. What is the most likely diagnosis?

2735. A patient presents with urinary incontinence and symptoms suggesting autonomic dysfunction along with painful neuropathy. Nerve conduction studies indicate axonal neuropathy with carpal tunnel syndrome. What is the most appropriate investigation?

2736. Case of a lady post-hysterectomy presented with weakness in hip flexion and knee extension. What is the most likely injury in her procedure?

2737. The same patient is asking about the antibody associated with his condition. What is the antibody?

2738. A 20-year-old presents with respiratory symptoms, an aneurysm, PAS on pathology, negative forearm exercise diagnosis, and no clinical but electrical myotonia. What is the likely diagnosis?

2739. A patient presents with progressive hand muscle weakness and severe atrophy, with plantars upgoing in the lower limbs. What is the most likely diagnosis?

2740. What is the most common presentation of post-polio syndrome?

2741. A patient with a history of HCV presents with peripheral neuropathy. Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?

2742. Which of the following is NOT a characteristic feature of Myotonic dystrophy?

2743. In a scenario typical for GBS, the patient presents with bone pain and recent vaccination. What would you expect to see on day 5 during nerve conduction studies (NCS) or electromyography (EMG)?

2744. A 57-year-old male is referred to neurology consultation from the gastro team. He has a complaint of dysphagia with a negative GI workup and is found to have wrist flexion and knee extension weakness. CK was 700. What is your diagnosis?

2745. A patient experiences leg cramps at the beginning of exercise that improve with rest. What test is most appropriate for diagnosis?

2746. A 16-year-old patient has difficulty climbing stairs, a positive Gower sign, and scapular winging. What is the most likely diagnosis?

2747. A patient with a history of back of throat pain and tongue pain experiences episodic syncope. What is your next step?

2748. Which variant of Guillain-Barré syndrome is characterized by bilateral facial weakness and paraesthesias?

2749. In a scenario with amyloidosis, what is the next step in management?

2750. A patient has myotonia symptoms since age 10 for 5 years. The father had myotonia, and there is no mention of weakness. What is the diagnosis?

2751. A young man who had abdominal pain around 1 week back and had a flu vaccine 2 weeks ago presented with a 5-day history of progressive distal dysesthesias and facial hyperhidrosis. Later on, he was tripping while walking and had weakness with decreased deep tendon reflexes (DTR) on examination. What is the management?

2752. In the same previous scenario, with a lesion distal to a nerve root, what is most useful in localization?

2753. A patient who recently underwent right femoral replacement surgery has weakness in hip adductors and slight hip flexor weakness. Where is the lesion?

2754. What is the most common deficit that occurs post elbow joint trauma?

2755. A patient presents with episodic weakness that worsens while eating tomatoes and bananas. What ion channel is likely involved in this condition?

2756. In a dysferlinopathy scenario, which condition is indicated by gastrocnemius muscle atrophy?

2757. Which of the following is NOT included in the Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS) spectrum?

2758. Q258. A case of hypokalemic periodic paralysis is presented. What is the most helpful diagnostic test?

2759. In Hyperkalemic Periodic Paralysis, the degree of paralysis is usually described as:

2760. What is the most common subtype of acetylcholine receptor (AchR) antibody?

2761. A patient with hypertension and bulbar weakness presents with generalized weakness. What is the likely antibody involved?

2762. A Filipino man who did intense exercise then developed generalized weakness with an intact level of consciousness. What is the most useful test to send for?

2763. A patient presents with proximal weakness and there is no history of statin use. A pathology slide is provided for analysis. Which of the following conditions could be indicated by the findings?

2764. A patient presents with upper limb numbness and pinprick sensation around the shoulder. The preserved position sense and weakness suggest which diagnosis?

2765. In Hereditary Neuropathy with Liability to Pressure Palsies (HNPP), which nerve is most commonly affected?

2766. An 18-year-old patient presented with progressive limb weakness. On examination, he has normal facial muscle strength, bilateral weakness on shoulder abduction with scapular winging, and hip extension weakness. Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?

2767. Q427. A scenario is suggestive of amyloidosis with autonomic symptoms, lower limb pain, and carpal tunnel syndrome. Which test will confirm the diagnosis?

2768. Q69. In an elderly female presenting with chronic demyelinating polyneuropathy and an associated monoclonal paraproteinemia (MGUS), what is the most appropriate first-line treatment?

2769. What is the typical age demographic affected by Multifocal Motor Neuropathy (MMN)?

2770. In a patient with AIDP, what cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) finding is expected?

2771. A young patient with distal myopathy (posterior calf) has a high CK level of 7000. Which of the following conditions could be the diagnosis?

2772. A patient presents with weakness in hand flexors and quadriceps femoris. What is the diagnosis?

2773. A 45-year-old woman with breast cancer is treated with radiation therapy to the left axilla for lymph node metastases. A year later, she notes the gradual onset of numbness in the left hand extending proximally in the arm, followed by loss of muscle bulk in the arm. Examination shows weakness and sensory loss primarily in a C6–C7 distribution. Which of the following findings is more likely to suggest a radiation-induced problem than recurrent tumor in this patient?

2774. Which diagnostic study is used to identify focal motor conduction block in MMN?

2775. In a scenario involving a female patient with ocular myasthenia gravis, what is the best sensitive test to confirm the diagnosis?

2776. A patient with hypokalemic periodic paralysis has a potassium level of 2.6. After administering potassium, what is the next step in treatment?

2777. A patient presented to the outpatient clinic with complaints of wrist drop. Examination showed weakness in finger extension, with normal wrist and elbow flexion and extension, and normal sensation. Where is the site of the lesion?

2778. A 40-year-old male with proximal upper and lower limb weakness associated with tremors and tongue atrophy and fasciculation. Labs reported elevated creatine kinase levels. What else is associated?

2779. A Filipino male patient presents with a history of generalized weakness upon waking. What laboratory test should be ordered?

2780. In a case scenario of a patient with findings suggestive of dermatomyositis (hints: dermal lesions, myopathy), what is the expected biopsy finding?

2781. What is the treatment for Inclusion Body Myositis (IBM)?

2782. A 16-year-old patient has difficulty climbing stairs, a positive Gower sign, and on examination has bilateral scapular winging. His parents are first-degree cousins, and his sister is affected as well. What is the most likely diagnosis?

2783. A patient with proximal upper and lower limb weakness and dysmorphic features underwent a muscle biopsy that showed central core. What is the likely diagnosis?

2784. A case of a patient with cramps and stiffness that relieve with movements is noted, with a similar history in the father. What is the most likely diagnosis?

2785. A patient with proximal upper and lower limb weakness and dysmorphic features underwent a muscle biopsy that showed central core. What is the likely diagnosis?

2786. Which of the following is the most common cause of ischemic stroke?

2787. A patient with hypokalemic periodic paralysis has a potassium level of 2.3 mEq/L. What is the first-line treatment?

2788. A patient presents with a long face and central core on pathology. What condition might this suggest?

2789. A 35-year-old male has progressive asymmetric weakness starting in the right leg that ascends to both arms, with no sensory, ocular, or autonomic features. On examination, there is brisk deep tendon reflexes with atrophy and fasciculation. What is the diagnosis?

2790. A patient presents with upper limb and lower limb weakness and numbness with bilateral lower limb edema. What is the likely diagnosis?

2791. What is a hallmark finding in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of patients with CIDP?

2792. In the context of neuromyopathies, which medication is commonly associated with treatment?

2793. In a patient with AIDP, what is the expected nerve conduction study (NCS) finding at day 5?

2794. A patient with high CK levels and myositis is currently on statin therapy. What is the recommended management?

2795. Q387. SMA

2796. A patient presents with back pain and L5 radiculopathy. Which muscle is involved?

2797. A 15-year-old male has myotonia and weakness that improves after exercise; his father has the same condition. What is the diagnosis?

2798. A young man presents with myotonia that improves after exercise. His father had the same diagnosis. What is the most likely diagnosis?

2799. In a patient diagnosed with Chronic Inflammatory Demyelinating Polyneuropathy (CIDP), what is the characteristic clinical presentation?

2800. A 15-year-old male has myotonia and weakness that improves after exercise; his father has the same condition. What is the diagnosis?

2801. In a patient with Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS), which of the following findings is typically observed in nerve conduction studies (NCS) or electromyography (EMG)?

2802. Which of the following cranial nerves is primarily responsible for controlling the muscles of facial expression?

2803. Q242. What is the treatment of choice for acute attacks of hypokalemic periodic paralysis?

2804. Q46. A case scenario of findings suggestive of multifocal motor neuropathy (MMN) is presented. What is the diagnosis?

2805. A patient with hypokalemic periodic paralysis has a potassium level of 2.6. After you give potassium to the patient, what is the treatment?

2806. What is the first-line treatment for Chronic Inflammatory Demyelinating Polyneuropathy (CIDP)?

2807. In a scenario about botulism with an increment on high-frequency repetitive nerve stimulation (RNS), what is the pathology?

2808. A 20-year-old male has a history of limb weakness. Examination reveals significant weakness of the posterior thigh and scapular muscles with winging of the scapula, sparing the face. Muscle biopsy shows eosinophilia. What is the diagnosis?

2809. A 55-year-old patient came with lower limb paresthesia and heaviness that is getting worse, reaching to the upper limb, and intermittent abdominal pain, hyperhidrosis; he received a vaccine 2 weeks ago. What is the diagnosis?

2810. Q63. A decrement greater than 10% in CMAP during a Two-hertz to 5-Hz RNS study is indicative of what condition?

2811. Which of the following is the most common cause of acute ischemic stroke?

2812. A 22-year-old Filipino male presented with generalized weakness after heavy exercise. On examination, he shows hypotonia, areflexia, and weakness. What is the next best step in management?

2813. In a patient with a stab wound resulting in ulnar neuropathy, what would you expect to find in nerve conduction studies (NCS) after 5 days?

2814. A patient presented with dysphagia, tongue fasciculation, and an exaggerated jaw reflex for 18 months, with other neurological examinations normal. What is the diagnosis?

2815. A patient taking a multivitamin is experiencing sensory neuronopathy. Which vitamin is most likely involved?

2816. A Filipino male had sudden generalized weakness after vigorous exercise. What laboratory test should be ordered?

2817. A case presents with weakness in distal hand and forearm muscles that progressed over 18 months and then became static. What is the diagnosis?

2818. A case scenario of a patient with myopathy and malignant hyperthermia is presented. What is the likely diagnosis?

2819. An elderly patient with uncontrolled diabetes presents with foot drop, thigh pain, and weight loss. What is the most important management step?

2820. A patient presents with scapular winging and weakness. He has very high CK levels, and a muscle biopsy showed eosinophils. What is the likely diagnosis?

2821. A patient who had a mastectomy presents with arm pain and dysesthesia over the fourth and fifth fingers. What is the next best step in management?

2822. Q160. What histological finding is associated with a sural nerve biopsy in HNPP?

2823. A patient with myasthenia gravis (MG) presents. What is the most sensitive test for diagnosing this condition?

2824. An elderly patient presents with a progressive, symmetric sensorimotor peripheral neuropathy. On examination, there is hepatosplenomegaly, bilateral lower-limb edema, and laboratory studies reveal a monoclonal λ light-chain spike. Which condition is most likely?

2825. In an anti-MuSK case, which statement is true?

2826. A 35-year-old patient presented with posterior thigh weakness and calf weakness and is unable to perform plantar flexion. CK levels are 35 times the normal limit. What is the likely diagnosis?

2827. A patient presents with weakness provoked by exercise but then improves shortly after. What is the likely diagnosis?

2828. A 20-year-old patient presents with a 10-year history of lower limb proximal weakness and difficulty standing from a sitting position. He has siblings with the same problem. EMG findings are not available, and CK levels are 2800. What is the most likely diagnosis?

2829. A patient with Anti-Musk antibodies is likely to present with which of the following symptoms?

2830. In a scenario with stiffness and difficulty walking with an episode of loss of consciousness, where EMG showed neuromyotonia and the patient is now fully conscious with normal mental status, what is the diagnosis?

2831. A young male patient came with eyelid myotonia that increased after eating ice cream or being exposed to cold. What is the diagnosis?

2832. A man who developed progressive weakness of the right hand showed severe weakness and muscle atrophy in the right arm, along with decreased reflexes and fasciculation. The left arm showed hyporeflexia, while the lower limb was not affected and sensory examination was normal. What is the most appropriate treatment?

2833. In a scenario suggesting periodic paralysis in a Filipino patient with generalized muscle weakness, what is the next investigation to be performed?

2834. What should be regularly assessed in a patient with Guillain-Barré syndrome?

2835. A 26-year-old male presented with proximal weakness and bilateral scapular winging, painless, with no clear history of facial asymmetry. What is the diagnosis? Attached pedigree shows autosomal recessive inheritance pattern.

2836. A 50-year-old male presents with a history of progressive lower limb weakness with tingling and numbness for 3 months, which then became static. Later, he experienced sudden right foot drop. Examination reveals weakness with areflexia. What is the most likely diagnosis?

2837. A 23-year-old male presents with respiratory failure and a cerebral aneurysm. Electromyography (EMG) shows myotonia without clinical myotonia. What is the diagnosis?

2838. In paramyotonia congenita, what happens to the amplitude of the compound muscle action potential (CMAP) with exposure to cold?

2839. A scenario is suggestive of Mononeuritis multiplex with pathology showing monoclonal cells and necrotizing vasculitis. What is the likely diagnosis?

2840. What is the first abnormality typically seen in nerve conduction studies (NCS) or electromyography (EMG) in AIDP?

2841. A patient with multifocal motor neuropathy (MMN) is being considered for treatment. What is the first-line management option?

2842. In a scenario of facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy (FSH), what is the likely diagnosis?

2843. A patient presents with ocular muscle weakness, ptosis, mild facial weakness, and proximal weakness. What is the likely diagnosis?

2844. What is the most sensitive test for diagnosing Myasthenia Gravis (MG)?

2845. A patient presented with progressive inability to drink with a straw, proximal weakness, scapular winging, and impaired foot dorsiflexion. What is the most likely diagnosis?

2846. A patient presents with symmetrical proximal and distal weakness, numbness in toes and fingers, fasciculations, and foot drop during the course of the disease. What is the diagnosis?

2847. Anti-striatal antibody in Myasthenia Gravis (MG) indicates:

2848. In a scenario involving amyloidosis, what is the next step in management?

2849. A Filipino patient has muscle stiffness and intermittent weakness. What should be tested for him?

2850. Q112. What is the medication that causes neuropathy and myopathy?

2851. In a patient with sensory and autonomic neuropathy, a family history of restrictive cardiomyopathy is noted. What is the likely diagnosis?

2852. In a scenario of LGM1B (laminopathy) with elevated heart enzyme levels, what is the expected finding?

2853. In a case scenario of a patient with findings suggestive of hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy type 1 (HMSN1) who has a PMP22 duplication, what would the biopsy findings most likely show?

2854. Q184. A patient has difficulty blowing air in the mouth and presents with an asymmetrical right foot drop. What is the most likely diagnosis?

2855. An adult presents with a history of gait issues. Examination shows significant weakness and atrophy of the gastrocnemius muscle with mild weakness in the upper limbs. What is the diagnosis?

2856. What is the typical recovery pattern following an episode of Hereditary Neuropathy with Liability to Pressure Palsies (HNPP)?

2857. Which cranial nerve is primarily responsible for the sense of smell?

2858. A patient presents with hand extension weakness but no sensory loss. Which nerve is likely affected?

2859. A young patient presents with distal myopathy (posterior calf) and a high creatine kinase level of 7000. What is the likely diagnosis?

2860. Dermatomyositis is associated with which of the following findings?

2861. What is the most common gene associated with familial Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS)?

2862. A case presents with stiffness induced by exercise, and the patient experiences forced eye closure when sneezing, along with percussion myotonia and eyelid myotonia. Which channel is likely affected?

2863. In the context of Inclusion Body Myositis (IBM), what is the primary treatment approach?

2864. In a patient with Acute Inflammatory Demyelinating Polyneuropathy (AIDP), what is the first abnormality typically seen in nerve conduction studies (NCS) or electromyography (EMG)?

2865. A middle-aged female has a history of diarrhea two weeks prior to presentation and now has paresthesia and weakness. What is the most likely diagnosis?

2866. Case scenario of a patient with inner arm and forearm tingling sensation, thenar muscle weakness, and pain when raising the arm. Where is the localization?

2867. In a scenario with congenital myasthenia gravis (MG), the patient has hand involvement and proximal upper and lower limb weakness. What is the likely diagnosis?

2868. In ulnar neuropathy, what will you find on day 5 in nerve conduction studies (NCS)?

2869. A 35-year-old patient presented with posterior thigh weakness and calf weakness, and he cannot perform plantar flexion. His CK level is 35 times the normal value. What is the likely diagnosis?

2870. A 55-year-old patient presented with ptosis, extraocular muscle weakness, dysphagia, and proximal weakness. What is the likely diagnosis?

2871. A patient with C5–C6 radiculopathy is evaluated. Which muscle is involved?

2872. A patient with shoulder pain and weakness in the forearm and arm is evaluated. What is the most commonly involved structure?

2873. The same patient is asking about the treatment. What is the most effective treatment for this condition?

2874. Q238. A patient presents 2 days postpartum with flaccid paralysis, decreased reflexes, and normal sensation. What is the most appropriate next step in management?

2875. Q234. What is the characteristic presentation of monomelic amyotrophy?

2876. Q172. A 44-year-old female presents with a 3-week history of left leg numbness and right hand and arm areflexia on the left ankle and knee. An EMG showed peroneal nerve involvement, while radial and ulnar nerves were asymptomatic. The ESR was high, and the MRI was normal. What is the most likely diagnosis?

2877. In a patient with Type 2 Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease, what is the typical feature?

2878. A 35-year-old female with a known case of Myasthenia Gravis for 5 years presents with worsening generalized weakness. She has positive acetylcholine receptor antibodies and thymic hyperplasia on CT chest. Currently, she is on pyridostigmine every 4 hours. What is the most appropriate management?

2879. A 2-month-old infant presents with apnea, macroglossia, and hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. What is the most likely diagnosis?

2880. In anti-MuSK positive myasthenia gravis, which muscle group is most commonly affected?

2881. An image of nerve conduction studies (NCS) of the median nerve shows:

2882. A scenario typical for paramyotonia congenita is presented. What is the gene involved?

2883. A patient is losing the clutch, has Lhermitte sign, and experiences ataxia that worsens at night. The blood film is abnormal. What is the diagnosis?

2884. In a patient with Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS), what is a key clinical finding?

2885. Q45. (Source: Part 2 2021mcqs.txt) What is the treatment for Inclusion Body Myositis (IBM)?

2886. A young male presents with neck and shoulder pain, along with decreased sensation in the medial wrist affecting the 4th and 5th fingers. What is the likely diagnosis?

2887. A patient with myotonic dystrophy presents with shoulder pain. What is the most appropriate management for this patient?

2888. A patient presented with a neuropathy after a mild car accident and was found to have a PMP22 gene deletion. What is the characteristic pathological finding?

2889. What is the typical recovery time for Guillain-Barré syndrome?

2890. A patient presents with mononeuritis multiplex. Nerve biopsy demonstrates transmural vessel wall necrosis with infiltration by inflammatory cells. What is the most likely diagnosis?

2891. Q52. A patient presents with scapular winging and weakness, and he has very high CK levels. Muscle biopsy showed eosinophils. What is the likely diagnosis?

2892. A patient with a known case of diabetes mellitus presents with peripheral neuropathy and has impaired sensation for pinprick up to mid-shin. What test would be best for diagnosis?

2893. Which of the following statements about Kennedy disease (Spinal and Bulbar Muscular Atrophy) is correct?

2894. In a patient with a familial history of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), which gene mutations are commonly associated?

2895. Q57. In a typical scenario of a stiff person, EMG showed continuous contractions. What is the antibody?

2896. After radiation therapy, a patient presents with shoulder abduction weakness (4/5), impaired sensation in the lateral thumb and lateral forearm, and improved function in the index and third fingers. Which nerve is likely impaired?

2897. A 22-year-old female patient presented with difficulty walking and climbing stairs; however, she has normal lifestyle function. Her parents are relatives, and her brother and sister have similar complaints. Genetic study for the family revealed a positive SMN1 gene mutation. Which of the following will correspond to the patient’s diagnosis?

2898. A middle-aged man presents to the outpatient clinic with a history of peripheral neuropathy. His past medical history is significant for asthma and recurrent sinusitis. Laboratory tests show positive P-ANCA. Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?

2899. A young patient presented with weakness and cannot extend his elbow; he has toe walking, and ECG showed RBBB. What is the diagnosis?

2900. In a case scenario of a patient with inner arm and forearm tingling sensation, thenar muscle weakness, and pain when raising the arm, where is the localization?

2901. A 35-year-old male presented to the clinic due to weakness that started in the last 3 years and progressed. His weakness is described as difficulty in climbing stairs and standing from a chair. He has a family history of similar weakness. Physical examination showed mild weakness in shoulder abduction bilaterally and lower limb weakness bilaterally. Reflexes were depressed in the knee and ankle bilaterally, and EMG showed lower limb fibrillation. What is the next step in management?

2902. A patient with acute shoulder pain develops subsequent weakness in muscles of the forearm and arm. Which structure of the brachial plexus is most commonly involved?

2903. An elderly thin female presents with foot drop and decreased sensation in the first and second toes. What is the likely cause?

2904. Q148. What is the treatment for Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome (LEMS) assuming it is paraneoplastic?

2905. A patient with polymyalgia rheumatica is on steroids (5 mg) post-myocardial infarction and is also taking atorvastatin (40 mg). The patient presents with proximal muscle weakness and cannot rise from a seated position, with a creatine kinase level of 1880. What is the most likely diagnosis?

2906. A young patient with congenital myasthenia gravis (MG) has a history suggestive of slow channel type. What is the recommended treatment?

2907. In a scenario of Miller Fisher syndrome, what is the associated antibody?

2908. A 45-year-old female with a picture of Miller Fisher syndrome is asked about treatment. What is the most appropriate treatment?

2909. A scenario about a patient with CIDP is presented. What is the treatment?

2910. Q384. In a case of neurofascin 51, what is the pathophysiology?

2911. Typical case of a young lady with diurnal proximal muscle weakness with dysarthria and tongue fasciculations. What is the likely diagnosis?

2912. Q354. In Myasthenia Gravis, which statement is correct regarding the association with thymoma?

2913. An elderly female presents with typical features of CIDP (Chronic Inflammatory Demyelinating Polyneuropathy). Which antibody is most likely to be present?

2914. A lady who has symptoms of peripheral neuropathy (among other symptoms) and electrophoresis showed the presence of IgM antibody. What is the treatment?

2915. Steroid myopathy is due to atrophy of which muscle fiber type?

2916. A patient with back pain radiating to the left lower limb and normal ankle reflex. What muscle is involved?

2917. What is the typical serum potassium level in Hypokalemic Periodic Paralysis?

2918. A patient presents with right hand pain, left leg pain, absent brachioradialis tendon reflex, and absent bilateral knee reflexes, along with a high ESR. What is the most likely diagnosis?

2919. What is the cause of prolonged duration and decreased amplitude of the compound muscle action potential (CMAP) that is related to demyelinating neuropathy?

2920. Q340. A 69-year-old lady was healthy until age 42 when she started to have myalgia and was diagnosed with myopathy. Her symptoms worsened over 20 years, and at age 56, she started to experience finger agnosia and ophthalmoplegia. She also has a family history of progressive external ophthalmoplegia. What is the diagnosis?

2921. Q95. What is the management for IgG gammopathy?

2922. A patient presents with progressive proximal weakness and an autosomal recessive pattern in siblings. Creatine kinase is elevated, and EMG shows motor unit action potentials (MUAP). What is the likely diagnosis?

2923. A female patient with myasthenia gravis (MG) and thymus hyperplasia (grade 4) shows no improvement in her symptoms. What is the recommended management?

2924. A patient presents with progressive proximal weakness and an autosomal recessive pattern in siblings. Creatine kinase is elevated, and EMG shows motor unit action potentials (MUAP). What is the likely diagnosis?

2925. What is the typical nerve conduction study (NCS) finding in a patient with motor neuron disease (MND)?

2926. A 40-year-old male presented to the outpatient clinic with a history of progressive bilateral upper and lower limb proximal weakness. There are no cranial nerve or bulbar symptoms, and no other systemic symptoms. On examination, there is muscle tenderness but no skin manifestation. Lab investigations showed CK of 40,000. Muscle biopsy showed perifascicular atrophy. Which antibody is associated with the patient's diagnosis?

2927. A 40-year-old male presented to the outpatient clinic with a history of progressive bilateral upper and lower limb proximal weakness. There are no cranial nerve or bulbar symptoms, and no other systemic symptoms. On examination, there is muscle tenderness but no skin manifestation. Lab investigations showed CK of 40,000. Muscle biopsy showed perifascicular atrophy. Which antibody is associated with the patient’s diagnosis?

2928. Which of the following genetic mutations is associated with myotonic dystrophy type 1 (DM1)?

2929. In a case of neurofascin 51, what is the appropriate treatment?

2930. What is a known association between hepatitis C virus (HCV) and neuropathy?

2931. Q12. The Miller Fisher variant is characterized by which of the following features?

2932. Q36. In a scenario of Hereditary Sensory and Autonomic Neuropathy type 1 (HSAN 1) characterized by painful ulcers and mutilation, which gene is implicated?

2933. In a case scenario of a patient with an androgen receptor gene defect suggestive of Kennedy syndrome, what associated findings should be expected?

2934. What is the inheritance pattern of paramyotonia congenita?

2935. Which of the following is a common endocrine complication associated with Myotonic dystrophy?

2936. A 30-year-old male has severe demyelinating neuropathy with palpable nerves and a biopsy showing onion bulbs and elevated CSF protein. What is the most likely diagnosis?

2937. Scenario of recurrent painless multifocal mononeuropathies at common compression sites. Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease is suspected. What is the most important genetic test?

2938. A case of Duchenne muscular dystrophy presents with Gower’s sign and calf hypertrophy. What is the most appropriate method to diagnose this condition?

2939. Q129. (Source: Part II 2019mcqs.txt) What type of neurofibrillary tangles are associated with PD-ALS?

2940. Q38. What is the mode of inheritance for adult familial ALS?

2941. In a scenario of Charcot-Marie-Tooth (CMT) disease with episodic dysarthria and ataxia, where nerve conduction studies show severely affected amplitudes for motor and sensory nerves but preserved velocity and latency, what is the type of CMT?

2942. What is the most common familial gene associated with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS)?

2943. Q45. In a congenital myopathy scenario, a biopsy shows central core features. What is the gene associated with this condition?

2944. In a case of a young female who developed episodic and recurrent weakness at different sites (compression of ulnar at elbow, common peroneal at fibular head, etc.), what is the cause?

2945. Q29. (Source: Part 1 2021mcqs.txt) The genetic inheritance pattern of Hypokalemic Periodic Paralysis is:

2946. A patient presents with muscle stiffness that worsens with exercise. What is the likely diagnosis?

2947. Q200. A 48-year-old male presents with toe walking and weakness. His family history reveals normal parents (cousin) and one affected sister. Which of the following conditions is least likely to be the cause of his symptoms?

2948. A patient presented with lower limb distal weakness. The family pedigree showed autosomal dominant inheritance, and the scenario is suggestive of hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy (HMSN). The patient underwent genetic testing which showed no PMP22 duplication. What should be done next?

2949. The HNPP gene is associated with which of the following?

2950. Q63. A patient was diagnosed with Metachromatic Leukodystrophy. What will you find on nerve conduction studies (NCS)?

2951. A male patient presents with sensory motor axonal neuropathy, decreased pain, temperature, and vibration sensation, along with a family history. What is the likely genetic mutation?

2952. In a scenario of a patient with cardiomegaly, bilateral carpal tunnel syndrome, peripheral sensory polyneuropathy, and autonomic symptoms with a family history of similar symptoms, what would you order?

2953. A young female presents with recurrent neuropathy after minor trauma. Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?

2954. A young man who went to sleep at 10 PM woke up at midnight with weakness in his whole body and shortness of breath. The attack resolved after a few hours. What is the mechanism of action of the treatment for this condition?

2955. Q76. A case about a male with external ophthalmoplegia and ptosis, with onset before he was 10 years old. What is the mutation associated with this condition?

2956. In a patient with Type 2 Charcot–Marie–Tooth disease, what is the typical feature?

2957. A 13-year-old boy presents for evaluation of muscle pain and stiffness over the past year. His muscle stiffness worsens in cold weather and was especially severe after ice-skating. He demonstrates percussion myotonia at the thenar eminence. Which channel mutation is most likely responsible for his presentation?

2958. What is the diagnosis for a patient with symptoms consistent with Monomelic Amyotrophy (Hirayama disease)?

2959. A patient with hereditary peripheral neuropathy and transient CNS symptoms presents. What is the likely diagnosis?

2960. Q140. In Charcot‐Marie‐Tooth disease type 2A (CMT2A), what would you expect?

2961. In a case of Duchenne muscular dystrophy where the patient’s brother has the same disease, which of the following statements is true?

2962. A typical scenario of hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy (HMSN) shows a biopsy revealing onion bulb formations. What gene is associated with this condition?

2963. Which of the following statements is true regarding Paramyotonia congenita?

2964. A one-month-old baby presented with a history of one week of lethargy, weak cry, and weak sucking. Examination showed hypotonia, ptosis, and non-reactive pupils. What is the diagnosis?

2965. A 2-month-old infant had apnea, macroglossia, and cardiac disease. What is the likely diagnosis?

2966. A female patient with a history of neuropathic ulcer underwent testing for PMP22 deletion and duplication, which was negative. What is the gene associated with her condition?

2967. In a scenario of paramyotonia congenita, which channel is involved, particularly worsened by cold and exercise?

2968. A patient presents with findings suggestive of Myotonic dystrophy. Which gene is associated with this condition?

2969. In hereditary neuropathy with liability to pressure palsies (HNPP), what is the gene involved?

2970. An infant presents with hypotonia, cardiomegaly, and macroglossia. Creatine Kinase (CK) levels are elevated. What is the most likely diagnosis?

2971. A newborn presents with macroglossia, hypotonia, and myotonia. Which enzyme deficiency is most likely responsible for this condition?

2972. A man with a long history of malnutrition presented with peripheral neuropathy, ataxia, deafness, and retinal degeneration. He was diagnosed with Strachan syndrome, which is a deficiency in:

2973. A patient who had bariatric surgery developed progressive lower‐extremity weakness, sensory ataxia, and large‐fiber peripheral neuropathy. Serum B12 and methylmalonic acid levels are normal. What is the most likely micronutrient deficiency?

2974. Q44. A patient with history of mastectomy presents with arm pain and dysesthesia over the fourth and fifth fingers. What should be done next?

2975. After gastric bypass surgery, a patient presents with symptoms of Vitamin B1 deficiency. What is the most appropriate management?

2976. A patient who underwent bariatric surgery 6 months ago presents with weakness and imbalance. Symptoms started 3 months ago, and examination reveals loss of proprioception and spasticity. B12 and methylmalonic acid levels are normal. What deficiency is most likely?

2977. A patient came with right upper limb weakness and intrinsic hand atrophy and diminished reflexes. What is the likely diagnosis?

2978. A case scenario of a patient with Vitamin B12 deficiency (with symptoms involving vibration and proprioception) but with Vitamin B12 levels at the upper normal limit. What should you order?

2979. A lady post-bariatric surgery is noted to have posterior column symptoms and numbness with weakness. She has an unsteady gait in the dark, a positive Romberg test, and decreased vibration sense. What vitamin deficiency is most likely?

2980. A patient with a radial fracture one month ago presents with pain and erythema. The exam was difficult due to pain. What is the diagnosis?

2981. A patient presents with spasticity and upper motor neuron signs. A video shows tongue fasciculations and atrophy. What is the likely diagnosis?

2982. A young female presents with dilated pupils, dysphagia, and descending weakness. What is the diagnosis?

2983. A young male patient presents with eyelid myotonia that increases after eating ice cream or exposure to cold. What is the diagnosis?

2984. Q26. A patient with Crohn’s disease who underwent resection presents with fat in the stool, ataxia, and decreased reflexes, along with myelopathy. What is the diagnosis?

2985. Q7. A patient presents after a hysterectomy with weakness in hip flexion and knee extension. Which nerve is likely affected?

2986. A patient presents with peripheral neuropathy, and his symptoms were provoked after minor surgery. Which vitamin deficiency should be considered?

2987. Which of the following is most common in the pathophysiology of Myasthenia Gravis (MG)?

2988. Regarding the age of onset of myasthenia gravis (MG), which of the following statements is correct?

2989. A smoker male presents with bilateral ptosis and proximal weakness. Where is the lesion located?

2990. In a known case of Duchenne muscular dystrophy, what are the first symptoms?

2991. A male patient presents with stiffness that worsens with repeated exercise. Which of the following conditions is most likely?

2992. Q15. A male patient presents with perioral fasciculation, areflexia, and systemic manifestations. Which of the following conditions could be associated with these symptoms?

2993. A patient with a known case of diabetes mellitus presents with peripheral neuropathy and has impaired sensation for pinprick up to mid-shin. Which treatment has level A evidence in the management of peripheral neuropathy?

2994. In a patient with myasthenia gravis, which medication should be avoided in the case of decreased thiopurine S-methyltransferase (TPMT) enzyme activity?

2995. What is the cause of prolonged duration and drop amplitude in CMAP?

2996. A 14-year-old boy presents with gastrointestinal symptoms and features of Guillain-Barré syndrome. His cerebrospinal fluid shows high protein with normal cell count (albuminocytologic dissociation). What is the most appropriate management?

2997. A patient presents with hip flexion weakness, thigh adduction weakness, and knee extension weakness after abdominal surgery. She is on warfarin. Where is the lesion likely located?

2998. Q19. In a case of dermatomyositis, what are the histology findings?

2999. Q4. A patient presents with shoulder and arm pain; MRI of the cervical spine shows a disc prolapse at the level of C5. Which muscle should be examined by EMG?

3000. A case of Crohn’s disease underwent resection and presented with ataxia and decreased reflexes. What is the diagnosis?

3001. A patient with a radial fracture one month ago complains of pain and erythema. Examination was difficult because of pain. What is the likely diagnosis?

3002. In a case of Mononeuritis Multiplex with weight loss and fever, which histologic finding is most characteristic?

3003. Q19. In a case of dermatomyositis, what are the histology findings?

3004. In a patient with Bell’s palsy, which muscle is involved?

3005. Q476. A patient with resected breast cancer who received radiotherapy developed Horner’s syndrome and plexopathy. What is the underlying mechanism?

3006. Q457. An HIV patient presents with a seizure. What is the likely culprit medication?

3007. A patient presented with a history of tingling sensation, numbness, and paresthesia, indicating small fiber neuropathy. He has pale bands over his nails. What is the likely diagnosis?

3008. A 52-year-old female with dyslipidemia on statin had pneumonia and was admitted to the hospital. After starting on erythromycin, she developed weakness. What increases the risk of suspected toxic myopathy?

3009. A tuberculosis (TB) patient started on treatment and then had a seizure. What medication is causing the seizure?

3010. Q192. What is the most common side effect of lithium?

3011. What medication causes sensory ataxia?

3012. Flumazenil

3013. What is the recommended treatment for severe arsenic poisoning?

3014. Naloxone

3015. What is the medication that causes neuropathy and myopathy?

3016. Q214. A patient on anti-TB agents developed seizures. Which of the following agents can cause it?

3017. A young patient with a history of liver transplant on cyclosporine presents with severe lower limb tremors. What is the best treatment option?

3018. What medication can cause a positive Romberg sign and a scenario suggestive of sensory neuronopathy?

3019. A patient receiving intrathecal methotrexate presents with clinical and biological findings typical for subacute combined degeneration of the spinal cord. What else would you give the patient besides stopping methotrexate?

3020. A patient with newly diagnosed pulmonary tuberculosis is started on standard four‐drug therapy. Two weeks into treatment, he develops generalized tonic–clonic seizures. Which antituberculosis medication is most likely responsible for his seizures?

3021. Which of the following agents can cause sensory ataxia, vibration, and proprioception loss?

3022. Q129. A patient with HIV on HAART developed seizures. What is the most likely cause?

3023. A young patient with a history of alcohol abuse presents with hallucinations, nystagmus, and ataxic gait. MRI shows increased signal intensity in the medial thalamus. What is the most likely diagnosis?

3024. A pregnant lady with hyperemesis gravidarum presents with paresthesia in the lower limbs, nystagmus, and ataxia. The likely vitamin deficiency is:

3025. High-dose pyridoxine toxicity may cause which of the following symptoms?

3026. What medication causes sensory ataxia?

3027. A patient who was arrested by police is encephalopathic and has a halitosis odor. What should you administer?

3028. A 53-year-old male presents with abdominal pain, vomiting, diarrhea, and gait difficulty. He is found to have depressed deep tendon reflexes and pale fingernails. What is the most likely culprit toxin?

3029. In Wernicke's encephalopathy, what type of memory is typically impaired?

3030. A patient on long-term use of colchicine developed myopathy and neuropathy. What is the likely cause of these symptoms?

3031. In the same scenario as above (Wernicke encephalopathy presentation), what is the recommended treatment?

3032. In the same patient with colchicine toxicity (implicitly referring to Q62), what is the expected muscle biopsy finding?

3033. An 85-year-old female treated for herpetic neuralgia became lethargic and confused 5 days after treatment. A CT scan of the brain and CSF analysis were normal. What is the most likely diagnosis?

3034. A tuberculosis (TB) patient started on treatment and then had a seizure. What medication is causing the seizure?

3035. Intoxication with which of the following agents would cause sensory ataxia with proprioception and vibratory loss?

3036. A post-bariatric surgery patient presents with nystagmus and ataxia, with findings suggestive of Wernicke’s encephalopathy. What is the most likely cause?

3037. Q41. What is the most common side effect of lithium?

3038. A case presents of a man with an ataxic gait and confusion, accompanied by a peculiar smell from his mouth. His pupils are normal. What is the most appropriate management?

3039. Mees lines are associated with which type of poisoning?

3040. A patient on anti-TB medication plus pyridoxine presents with painful neuropathy. Sensory exam and reflexes were normal. What is the diagnosis?

3041. A patient developed cognitive impairment and ataxia. MRI showed high signals in the mammillary bodies. What is the most likely deficiency?

3042. Q17. What is the case scenario associated with Strachan Syndrome?

3043. A patient was on Valproic acid and is discovered to be drowsy. What do you need to check?

3044. A patient on pregabalin (suspected to be abusing the drug); what will you do?

